# Attributes of Threat Actors

#### ATTRIBUTES OF THREAT ACTORS

Historically, cybersecurity techniques were highly dependent on the identification of "static" known threats, such as viruses or rootkits, Trojans, botnets, and specific software vulnerabilities. It is relatively straightforward to identify and scan for these types of threats with automated software. Unfortunately, adversaries were able to develop means of circumventing this type of signature-based scanning.

The sophisticated nature of modern cybersecurity threats means that it is important to be able to describe and analyze behaviors. This analysis involves identifying the attributes of threat actors in terms of location, intent, and capability.

**Internal/External**  
An external **threat actor or agent** is one that has no account or authorized access to the target system. A malicious external threat must infiltrate the security system using malware and/or social engineering. Note that an external actor may perpetrate an attack remotely or on-premises (by breaking into the company's headquarters, for instance). It is the threat actor that is defined as external, rather than the attack method.

Conversely, an internal (or insider) threat actor is one that has been granted permissions on the system. This typically means an employee, but insider threat can also arise from contractors and business partners.

**Intent/Motivation**  
_Intent_ describes what an attacker hopes to achieve from the attack, while _motivation_ is the attacker's reason for perpetrating the attack. A malicious threat actor could be motivated by greed, curiosity, or some sort of grievance, for instance. The intent could be to vandalize and disrupt a system or to steal something. Threats can be characterized as structured or unstructured (or targeted versus opportunistic) depending on the degree to which your own organization is targeted specifically. For example, a criminal gang attempting to steal customers' financial data is a structured, targeted threat; a script kiddie launching some variant on the "I Love You" email worm is an unstructured, opportunistic threat.

Malicious intents and motivations can be contrasted with accidental or unintentional threat actors and agents. Unintentional threat actors represents accidents, oversights, and other mistakes.

**Level of Sophistication/Capability and Resources/Funding**  
You must also consider the sophistication and level of resources/funding that different adversaries might possess. _Capability_ refers to a threat actor's ability to craft novel exploit techniques and tools. The least capable threat actor relies on commodity attack tools that are widely available on the web or dark web. More capable actors can fashion zero-day exploits in operating systems, applications software, and embedded control systems. At the highest level, a threat actor might make use of non-cyber tools, such as political or military assets. Capability is only funded through a substantial budget. Sophisticated threat actor groups need to be able to acquire resources, such as customized attack tools and skilled strategists, designers, coders, hackers, and social engineers. The most capable threat actor groups receive funding from nation states and criminal syndicates.