# Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures and Indicators of Compromise

#### TACTICS, TECHNIQUES, AND PROCEDURES AND INDICATORS OF COMPROMISE

A **tactic, technique, or procedure (TTP)** is a generalized statement of adversary behavior. The term is derived from US military doctrine (mwi.usma.edu/what-is-army-doctrine). TTPs categorize behaviors in terms of campaign strategy and approach (tactics), generalized attack vectors (techniques), and specific intrusion tools and methods (procedures).

An **indicator of compromise (IoC)** is a residual sign that an asset or network has been successfully attacked or is continuing to be attacked. Put another way, an IoC is evidence of a TTP.

> _TTPs describe what and how an adversary acts and Indicators describe how to recognize what those actions might look like. ([stixproject.github.io/documentation/concepts/ttp-vs-indicator](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/tactics-techniques-and-procedures-and-indicators-of-compromise))_

As there are many different targets and vectors of an attack, so too are there many different potential IoCs. The following is a list of some IoCs that you may encounter:

-   Unauthorized software and files
-   Suspicious emails
-   Suspicious registry and file system changes
-   Unknown port and protocol usage
-   Excessive bandwidth usage
-   Rogue hardware
-   Service disruption and defacement
-   Suspicious or unauthorized account usage

An IoC can be definite and objectively identifiable, like a malware signature, but often IoCs can only be described with confidence via the correlation of many data points. Because these IoCs are often identified through patterns of anomalous activity rather than single events, they can be open to interpretation and therefore slow to diagnose. Consequently, threat intelligence platforms use AI-backed analysis to speed up detection without overwhelming analysts' time with false positives.

> _Strictly speaking, an IoC is evidence of an attack that was successful. The term indicator of attack (IoA) is sometimes also used for evidence of an intrusion attempt in progress._