# Modify File and Directory Permissions

> **EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED**
> 
> _3.1 Given a scenario, apply or acquire the appropriate user and/or group permissions and ownership._

You'll begin restricting access to files and directories by applying the proper permissions to those resources. This is a crucial step in ensuring the security of your data.

#### **Permissions**

**Permissions** are access rights assigned to users, which enable them to access or modify certain files and directories. Permissions can be set at different levels and for different access contexts. They enable you to configure who is allowed to access an object, and who is restricted from accessing that object. Controlling access through permissions mitigates risk by ensuring that users are only able to access what they need to get their job done, and no more.

**_THE ls -l COMMAND_**  
The ls -l command gives you a long list of the files and directories in your current working directory. Each item in the list contains seven columns, three of which display permission information. The contents of the columns are described in the following table.

Column Number | Description
----- | -----
1 | he permission string. This identifies if the item is a file or directory, the user, group, and other permission assignment, and the access method.
2 | Number of links. Files generally have a link count of 1. For directories, the link count is the number of directories under it plus 2; 1 for the directory itself and 1 for the parent. Links are similar to Windows shortcuts; they point to the location where the file exists and enable you to access and view the file.
3 | Displays the owner of the file or directory.
4 | Displays the group that has been granted access by the administrator. All members of this group have the group permission listed in the permission string. The administrator adds users to a group so that permissions can be assigned to the group instead of to each user.
5 | Lists the size (in bytes) of the file or directory.
6 | Displays the date and time the file was created or last modified.
7 | Displays the file or directory name.

#### **Permission Attributes**

Permission attributes define exactly what a user is allowed to do with a particular file or directory. The following table describes the three permission attributes. Note that these attributes behave differently based on whether they apply to a file or a directory.

Attribute | Description
---- | -----
Read (r) | \- Files: The ability to access and view the contents of a file.  \- Directories: The ability to list the contents of a directory.
Write (w) | \- Files: The ability to save changes to a file.  \- Directories: The ability to create, rename, and delete files in a directory. Requires the execute attribute to also be set.
Execute (x) | \- Files: The ability to run a script, program, or other software file.  \- Directories: The ability to access a directory, execute a file from that directory, or perform a task on that directory (e.g., a search).