# Modify File and Directory Ownership

> **EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED**
> 
> _3.1 Given a scenario, apply or acquire the appropriate user and/or group permissions and ownership._

Although you've restricted access to your data by assigning permissions, you may need to allow users to modify those permissions for certain files and directories. This is where the concept of ownership comes into play.

#### **Ownership**

As you've seen, the first permission context is the owner, or user. In Linux, ownership refers to the property by which a user can apply and modify the permissions of a file or directory. By default, the owner of a file or directory is the user who created that file or directory. Other than the superuser, no other user can change the permissions of an object that is owned by someone else.

While the most common application of ownership is the changing of read, write, and execute permission attributes, owners can also alter advanced and special permissions of the objects they own.

#### **THE chown COMMAND**

The chown command is used to change the owner, the group, or both for a file or directory. At times, you may wish for someone else to manage an object's permissions other than the user who created that object.

The following table describes how to use this command.

Command Syntax | Description
------ | -----
chown {user name} | {file/directory name} Changes the owner but not the group.
chown {user name}:{group name}  | {file/directory name} Changes the owner and the group.
chown {user name}: {file/directory name} | Changes the owner and the group. The group will be changed to the specified user's login group.
chown :{group name} {file/directory name} | Changes the group but not the owner. This is the same as using the chgrp command.

  
**_RECURSIVELY CHANGING OWNERSHIP_**  
You can combine the chown command with the -R option to recursively change ownership through a directory structure.

#### **THE chgrp COMMAND**

The chgrp command is used to change the group ownership of a file or directory. Changing the group ownership of an object ensures that the group permissions are applied to the specific group.

**_SYNTAX_** The syntax of the chgrp command is `chgrp {group name} {file/directory name}`