# Sticky Bit

#### **Sticky Bit**

A _sticky bit_ is a special permission bit that provides protection for files in a directory. It ensures that only the owner of a file or directory (or root) can delete the file or directory. Without the sticky bit, any user with write and execute permissions on an object can delete that object. The sticky bit ensures that these users do not have delete privileges, but still have the rest of the privileges that come with writing and executing files and directories.

Like SUID/SGID, you set a sticky bit using the chmod command. Using `ls -al` you can see the sticky bit in the execute position for other users (the last position) as the letter t, or the capitalized letter T if the execute permission is not set for others.

**_SYNTAX_** The syntax for setting the sticky bit is as follows, using symbolic mode and absolute mode, respectively:

`chmod +t {directory names}
chmod 1### {directory names}` 

As with SUID/SGID, use - or 0 to clear the sticky bit.

**_STICKY BIT ON FILES_** In older versions of the kernel, a sticky bit could force a program or file to remain in memory so that it wouldn't need to be reloaded when it was invoked again. A sticky bit on a file indicated to the operating system that the file would be executed frequently. Modern versions of the Linux kernel ignore the sticky bit on files; if you want to protect specific files, you need to apply the sticky bit on the directory that contains them.

#### **File Attributes**

Files can have one or more attributes set on them that define how the system interacts with those files. These attributes go beyond typical permissions and enable you to more granularly customize what the system is and is not allowed to do with a file. There are many such attributes. Some examples include:

-   Only allow the file to be open for writing in append mode; i.e., don't allow the file to be overwritten.
-   Set the file to be automatically compressed.
-   Save the file if it is deleted, providing an opportunity for it to be recovered.
-   Make the file immutable.

#### **The Immutable Flag**

The _immutable flag_ is an attribute of a file or directory that prevents it from being modified, even by the root user. In other words, no one can delete, rename, or write to an immutable file. Setting the immutable flag is useful for files with a high degree of sensitivity and importance, and which are also not likely to change any time soon. A careless user or an errant process will be unable to delete the immutable file.

The immutable flag is not set on all files. A single directory can have a mix of mutable and immutable files and subdirectories. Also, an immutable subdirectory can have mutable files.

When viewing file attributes, the lowercase i character indicates that the immutable flag is set.