# Troubleshoot Permissions Issues

> **EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED**
> 
> _4.3 Given a scenario, analyze and troubleshoot user issues._

In any system, problems are inevitable. As a Linux professional, one of the most important skills you'll need is the ability to troubleshoot these problems. So, in this topic, you'll follow a general model for troubleshooting any type of operating system problem. You'll then put these troubleshooting skills to use by diagnosing and solving issues related to permissions.

#### Troubleshooting

Troubleshooting is the recognition, diagnosis, and resolution of problems. Troubleshooting begins with the identification of a problem, and it does not end until services have been restored and the problem no longer adversely affects users. Troubleshooting can take many forms, but all approaches have the same goal: to solve a problem efficiently with a minimal interruption of service.

#### Troubleshooting Models

A troubleshooting strategy is a plan of action for identifying the causes and resolving the effects of a system-related issue. You can implement a troubleshooting strategy through a step-by-step approach, or a _troubleshooting model_. There are many such models, and they can vary in their approach, but all models attempt to enable the troubleshooter to move in a methodical and repeatable pattern during the troubleshooting process.

One example of a troubleshooting model divides the process into the following steps:

1.  Identify the problem. This stage includes:
	-   Gathering information.
	-   Duplicating the problem, if possible.
	-   Questioning users to gain experiential information.
	-   Identifying the symptoms.
	-   Determining if anything has changed.
	-   Approaching multiple problems individually.
	
2.  Establish a theory of probable cause. This stage includes:
	-   Questioning the obvious.
	-   Considering multiple approaches.
	-   Looking for not just a cause, but the root cause.

3.  Test the theory to determine the cause.
	-   When the theory is confirmed, determine the next steps to resolve the problem.
	-   If the theory is not confirmed, establish a new theory or escalate the issue.

4.  Establish a plan of action to resolve the problem, while identifying the potential effects of your plan.

5.  Implement the solution, or escalate the issue.

6.  Verify full system functionality and, if applicable, implement preventative measures.

7.  Document your findings, actions, and the outcomes.