# Permissions Troubleshooting

As a general guideline, whenever you are denied permissions when you expect to have them, or vice versa, you should always verify the permissions of the relevant object by using the ls -al command. That will often save you from a lot of guesswork, as many issues simply come down to the wrong permission being applied.

The following table lists some common symptoms that relate to permissions issues, as well as some potential causes and solutions. Note that these are examples, and that some of these symptoms can have multiple causes and solutions.

Symptom | Cause and Solution
---- | ----
The owner of a text file is denied permission to view the contents of the text file. | `Cause:` Despite being the owner, the user is not explicitly granted read access.  `Solution:` Use chmod to grant read privileges to the owner context.
A user is denied permission to remove a directory, despite having write permission. | `Cause:` The user needs both write andexecute permission to modify a directory.  `Solution:` Use chmod to add execute permission to the directory for the appropriate context.
A user is denied permission to enter into a directory, despite having read permission. | `Cause:` The user needs execute permission to change to a directory.  `Solution:` Use chmod to add execute permission to the directory for the appropriate context.
A user is denied permission to remove a file, despite having full permissions on that file. | `Cause:` The user must have write permission on the containing directory.  `Solution:` Use chmod to add write permission to the directory for the proper context.
A user is denied permission to create files in a directory they have write and execute permission to. | `Cause:` The immutable flag is set on the directory.  `Solution:` As root, remove the immutable flag from the directory using the chattrcommand.
The root user is denied permission to modify a file. | `Cause:` The immutable flag is set on the file.  `Solution:` As root, remove the immutable flag from the file using the chattrcommand.
All users have the ability to list the contents of a directory, when only the owner, group members, and a specific service account should. | Cause: The read permission is set on the directory for the others context.  `Solution:` Remove read permission from the others context. Add the service account to the directory's ACL using the setfaclcommand, granting the account read access.
A user is denied permission to execute a script that they themselves created. | `Cause:` The execute permission is not automatically set for new files.  `Solution:` Use chmod to add execute permission to the script for the file owner.
A user is denied permission to change the contents of a script, even though they have the ability to execute that script. | Cause: Like with any other file, the user needs write permission in order to change a script's contents.  Solution: Use chmod to add write permission to the script for the appropriate context.
A user is denied permission to execute a script, despite having execute permission. | `Cause:` The user also needs read permission in order to execute a script.  `Solution:` Use chmod to add read permission to the script for the appropriate context.
All users are able to delete a file, but they should only be able to write to it. | `Cause:` By default, the write and execute permissions on directories enable users to delete the objects therein.  `Solution:` Add the sticky bit permission to the container directory so that only the owner or root can delete the file.