# Ownership Troubleshooting

Just like with permissions, you should use `ls -al` to verify the user and group ownership of a file or directory whenever you are experiencing ownership-related issues. Beyond that, the following table lists some potential issues you may come across, as well as suggested causes and solutions.

Symptom | Cause and Solution
----- | ----
A user is unable to access a file, despite the owner context having full permissions. | `Cause:` The user is not the owner of the file.  `Solution:` Use the chown command to make the user the owner of the file.
A user is unable to delete a file, despite the containing directory granting full permissions to the group. | `Cause:` The directory's owning group is not the same as the user's group.  `Solution:` Use the chgrp command to make the directory's owning group the same as the user's.
Several users are able to modify a file despite the others context only having read permission. | `Cause:` The file's owning group is set to the same group that these users are members of.  `Solution:` Use chgrp to change the file's owning group to some other group.
When a user creates files in a shared directory, the files take on the user's group ID, when they should take on the directory's group ID. | `Cause:` By default, files created by a user take on that user's group ID.  `Solution:` Use chmod to set the SGID permission on the containing directory so that all new files inherit the directory's group ID.
When a user creates files in a shared directory, the files take on the directory's group ID, when they should take on the user's group ID. | `Cause:` The SGID permission is set on the shared directory so that new files inherit the directory's group ID.  `Solution:` Use chmod to remove the SGID permission on the containing directory, disabling inheritance of the directory's group ID.