# Group Membership Troubleshooting

#### Group Membership Troubleshooting

Some issues arise because, despite having configured permissions and ownership correctly, the user may not be placed in the correct group. Use the groups `{user name}` command to discover what groups a user is a member of. A related issue is that, when a user creates files, the default owning group is not what is expected. Make sure the expected group is the user's primary group, rather than a secondary group. In either case, use the `usermod` command to change group membership when applicable.

It may also be beneficial to list all of the members of a group so you identify which accounts to add or remove as necessary. However, there is not necessarily one simple command that is universal to Linux distributions that can accomplish this. You can search the `/etc/group` file for the desired group, but this only displays groups in the standard database (i.e., not other authentication methods), and it doesn't show users whose primary group is the group you're searching for. The `lid` and `libuser-lid` commands are pre-installed on some distributions and can retrieve all members of a group, including members whose primary group is the group being searched for. The getent command, available on some distributions, enables you to retrieve group members of non-standard authentication methods.

#### Guidelines for Troubleshooting Permissions Issues

Use the following guidelines when troubleshooting permissions issues.

**_TROUBLESHOOT PERMISSION ISSUES_**  
When troubleshooting permissions issues:

-   Follow an overall troubleshooting strategy for any kind of troubleshooting task.
-   Follow a step-by-step troubleshooting model that can produce repeatable and demonstrable results.
-   Start by verifying an object's permissions and ownership using the `ls -al` command.
-   Ensure users have the permissions to work with a file if they are being denied access.
-   Ensure users do not have permissions that enable them to access files beyond what they should have.
-   Ensure objects don't have the immutable flag set if you expect to modify them.
-   Set the SUID permission on an executable if you need to run it with root permissions for it to function properly.
-   Set the sticky bit when you only want the owner and root to be able to delete an object.
-   Ensure objects have the proper owner and owning group set.
-   Set the SGID permission on a directory when you want new files to take on that directory's group ownership.
-   Use the groups `{user name}` command to verify the groups a user is a member of.
-   Modify group membership when necessary to ensure access or a lack thereof for specific users.
-   Acquire and use tools like lid and getent to view members of a specific group.