# Create Partitions

> EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED
> 
> _1.4 Given a scenario, manage storage in a Linux environment.  
> 2.3 Given a scenario, create, modify, and redirect files.  
> 4.1 Given a scenario, analyze system properties and remediate accordingly._

The first task in managing storage is to partition a storage device and format the partition with a file system. This will make the section of the device available for the reading and writing of data.

#### Storage Devices

A _storage device_ is a physical component that can record data and hold it persistently. There are many types of storage devices that are supported by the Linux operating system. Common types include:

-   **Hard disk drive (HDD)**—electromechanical devices that use magnetic storage technology to store data, usually in large amounts.
-   **Solid-state drive (SSD)**—storage devices that use non-mechanical solid-state technology to store data, usually in large amounts. They tend to support much quicker access times than HDDs.
-   **USB thumb drive**—portable storage devices that use flash memory technology to store data, usually in small amounts compared to HDDs and SSDs. Their small size makes them easy to move around.
-   **External storage drive**—portable storage drives that can use one of several technology types. They usually connect to a computer through a peripheral interface like USB, rather than being an internal component. Although the previous storage devices are most likely what you'll be working with, you might also be responsible for working with legacy technology like floppy disk drives (FDD), tape drives, etc.

Although the previous storage devices are most likely what you'll be working with, you might also be responsible for working with legacy technology like floppy disk drives (FDD), tape drives, etc.

> _Note: The terms "disk" and "hard drive" are often used to refer to all storage devices generally. Even some Linux tools do this. However, not all storage devices use hard disk technology, so this course uses terms like "storage device," "storage drive," and "storage media" to refer to the general concept._

**_BLOCK VS. CHARACTER DEVICES_**  

Linux refers to devices as either block or character devices. Block devices are storage devices (like those listed previously) that can be read from and written to in blocks of data. Character devices are devices like keyboards, mice, serial ports, etc., that can be read from and written to in streams of data.