# File Systems

#### File Systems

A _file system_ is a data structure that is used by an operating system to store, retrieve, organize, and manage files and directories on storage devices. A file system maintains information such as the date of creation and modification of individual files, the size of files on the storage device, the type of files, and permissions associated with files. It also provides a structured form for data storage.

A file system by itself does not interpret the data contained in files because this task is handled by specific applications. File systems vary depending on several parameters, such as the purpose of the file systems, the information they store about individual files, the way they store data, and the data security mechanisms they implement.

#### Types of File Systems

Linux supports many file system types. The most common are described in the following table.

File System Type | Description
---- | ----
FAT | File Allocation Table (FAT) is an older file system that is compatible with many different operating systems, including all versions of Unix, Windows, and macOS. It does not provide the same capabilities as more modern file systems and is typically used for compatibility reasons. Improved versions include FAT32 and exFAT.
ext2 | This used to be the native Linux file system of some older releases. It is still supported in current releases of Linux.
ext3 | This is an improved version of ext2. In case of an abrupt system shutdown, ext3 is much faster in recovering data and better ensures data integrity. You can easily upgrade your file system from ext2 to ext3.
ext4 | This is one of two default file system for Linux distributions. It is backwards-compatible with the ext2 and ext3 filesystems. Among ext4's improvements over ext3 are journaling, support of volumes of up to one exbibyte (EiB), and files up to 16 tebibyte (TiB) in size. This is the default file system for Ubuntu installations.
XFS | This is a 64-bit, high-performance journaling file system that provides fast recovery and can handle large files efficiently. XFS is the default file system for CentOS/RHEL 7 installations.
  
**_NTFS_**  
The _New Technology File System (NTFS)_ is a proprietary file system created by Microsoft as the primary file system for Windows. NTFS provides many enhanced features over FAT, including file- and folder-level security, file encryption, drive compression, and scalability to very large drives and files.

Linux does not support NTFS by default; however, a utility called NTFS-3G can enable support for NTFS on Linux systems.

**_NETWORK FILE SYSTEMS_**  
While the previous table lists general-purpose file systems, some file systems function as network protocols that enable the sharing of data over a network. Common types include the following.

Network File System | Description
---- | ----
Server Message Block (SMB) | The SMB protocol provides users shared access to files and other resources across a local area network (LAN). SMB clients make requests for resources to SMB servers, which respond and provide the appropriate level of access. This protocol is primarily used with Windows computers. However, SMB-compatible software called Samba helps interface Linux and Windows hosts running network shares.
Common Internet File System (CIFS) | CIFS is a specific implementation of SMB that is rarely in use. Microsoft designed it as a successor to SMB version 1, but SMB versions 2 and 3 superseded it. However, Linux still uses the CIFS name in some of its tools, though these tools support newer versions of SMB.
Network File System (NFS) | NFS offers similar functionality to SMB, but the protocols are not compatible. NFS is preferred in situations where Linux clients access Linux servers. In environments that are a mix of Windows and Linux, the SMB protocol is the better choice.

