# Virtual File System

#### Virtual File System

A real file system refers to a discrete file system that the Linux kernel can normally work with directly. The problem is, Linux supports many different file system types that aren't necessarily compatible. The _virtual file system (VFS)_ was created as a common software interface that sits between the kernel and real file systems. In effect, the VFS translates a real file system's details to the kernel so that the file system appears identical to any other file system.

With VFS, you can mount multiple different types of file systems on the same Linux installation, and they will appear uniform to the user and to all other applications. Therefore, the user and these applications can work with the file system without actually knowing its underlying structure. This greatly increases interoperability between the system and running software.

**_EXAMPLES_**  
Examples of real file systems on a Linux system can include `xfs, ext4,` and several other types. Examples of virtual file systems can include proc, which contains system information during runtime; `devtmpfs`, which contains device nodes loaded by the kernel during system initialization; `debugfs`, which contains information useful in debugging the Linux kernel; and many more.

#### File System Labels

File system labels are assigned to file systems for easy identification. The labels may be up to 16 characters long and can be displayed or changed using the e2label command for ext# file systems and the `xfs_admin` command for XFS file systems.

**_SYNTAX_**  
The syntax for setting ext# file system labels is `e2label /dev/{device name}{partition number} {label name}`

The syntax for setting XFS file system labels is `xfs_admin -L {label name} /dev/{device name}{partition number}`