# THE /dev/ DIRECTORY

#### THE /dev/ DIRECTORY

The `/dev/` directory contains files that represent and support devices attached to the system. Linux uses naming conventions so that storage devices will be easily located by the system when they are attached and when the system boots. For storage devices, the naming convention is typically expressed in three parts. Take the device name `/dev/sda1` as an example:

-   The sd portion refers to a specific type of controller that the device is using (in this case, SCSI/SATA, which is the most common).
-   The a portion refers to the first whole drive. The second whole drive would be b, the third would be c, and so on.
-   The 1 refers to the first partition on this drive. The second partition would be 2, the third would be 3, and so on.

When you manage partitions and other device information, for the most part, you'll use this naming convention to refer to those devices.

**_THE /dev/disk/by- IDENTIFIERS_**  
In addition to the previous naming convention, Linux also uses several different persistent naming schemes to identify devices. Controller-based naming can become problematic in systems with more than one of the same type of controller. So, the persistent naming schemes were created to make identifying a device more predictable. Some of those schemes are:

-   `/dev/disk/by-id` —This refers to an identifier based on the device's hardware serial number.
-   `/dev/disk/by-path` —This refers to an identifier based on the shortest physical path to the device (i.e., the path changes if you plug the device into a different port on the controller). This is useful in configurations using DM-Multipath, a feature of the kernel that supports multiple I/O paths to devices.
-   `/dev/disk/by-uuid` —This refers to an identifier based on the universally unique identifier (UUID) that was assigned to the device when a file system was created on it.