# Manage Logical Volumes

> EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED
> 
> _1.4 Given a scenario, manage storage in a Linux environment.  
> 4.1 Given a scenario, analyze system properties and remediate accordingly._

Partitions are useful, but they are not the only method for logically dividing a storage device. In this topic, you'll use logical volumes to create a more flexible structure for organizing data on storage devices.

#### Device Mapping

Thus far, you've worked with physical storage devices, also called physical volumes. However, there is a way to further abstract these devices into virtual storage devices—a process called _device mapping_. In Linux, the device mapper creates the virtual device and passes data from that virtual device to one or more physical devices.

Several Linux applications leverage the device mapper to perform various tasks. For example, volume encryption and integrity checking services use device mapper to act upon data that is transmitted between physical and virtual devices.

**_DM-MULTIPATH_**  
_DM-Multipath_ is a feature of the Linux kernel that provides redundancy and improved performance for block storage devices. It leverages the device mapper to support multiple I/O paths (connection interfaces) between the CPU and the storage devices. If one path fails, DM-Multipath will switch to one of the other paths that remain, keeping the storage device available for reading and writing. The `multipath-tools` package enables you to manage DM-Multipath for storage devices, and the typical configuration file is located at `/etc/multipath.conf`

**_THE mdadm COMMAND_**  
The mdadm command is a tool used to manage software-based RAID arrays. _Redundant array of independent disks (RAID)_ is a set of vendor-independent specifications that support redundancy and fault tolerance for configurations on multiple-device storage systems. In a RAID array, data is stored across multiple physical storage devices, and those devices are combined into a single virtual storage device. This type of software-based RAID configuration is an alternative to using device mapper and DM-Multipath. The mdadm tool enables you to create, manage, and monitor RAID arrays.