# LVM Tools

#### LVM Tools

LVM divides its volume management tools into three categories based on the three different components that make up LVM:

-   Physical volume (PV) tools
-   Volume group (VG) tools
-   Logical volume (LV) tools

#### PV Tools

The following table lists some of LVM's physical volume (PV) tools

Tool | Used To
----- | ----
pvscan | Scan for all physical devices that are being used as physical volumes.
pvcreate | Initialize a drive or partition to use as a physical volume.
pvdisplay | List attributes of physical volumes.
pvchange | Change attributes of a physical volume.
pvs | Display information about physical volumes.
pvck | Check the metadata of physical volumes.
pvremove | Remove physical volumes.

  

#### VG Tools

The following table lists some of LVM's volume group (VG) tools.

Tool | Used To
---- | ----
vgscan | Scan all physical devices for volume groups.
vgcreate | Create volume groups.
vgdisplay | List attributes of volume groups.
vgchange | Change attributes of volume groups.
vgs | Display information about volume groups.
vgck | Check the metadata of volume groups.
vgrename | Rename a volume group.
vgreduce | Remove physical volumes from a volume group to reduce its size.
vgextend | Add physical volumes to volume groups.
vgmerge | Merge two volume groups.
vgsplit | Split a volume group into two.
vgremove | Remove volume groups.


#### LV Tools

The following table lists some of LVM's logical volume (LV) tools.

Tool | Used To
---- | ----
lvscan | Scan all physical devices for logical volumes.
lvcreate | Create logical volumes in a volume group.
lvdisplay | List attributes of logical volumes.
lvchange | Change attributes of logical volumes.
lvs | Display information about logical volumes.
lvrename | Rename logical volumes.
lvreduce | Reduce the size of logical volumes.
lvextend | Extend the size of logical volumes.
lvresize | Resize logical volumes.
lvremove | Remove logical volumes.
   

> _Note: By default, the argument you provide to any of the resizing commands resizes the total LV to that value. You can also use + and - to resize by offset values instead._