# mount OPTIONS

#### mount OPTIONS

You can specify various mount options for a file system. These options are typically included in the fstab file rather than as command-line arguments.

Option | Used To
---- | ----
auto | Specify that the device has to be mounted automatically.
noauto | Specify that the device should not be mounted automatically.
nouser | Specify that only the root user can mount a device or a file system.
user | Specify that all users can mount a device or a file system.
exec | Allow binaries in a file system to be executed.
noexec | Prevent binaries in a file system from being executed.
ro | Mount a file system as read-only.
rw | Mount a file system with read and write permissions.
sync | Specify that input and output operations in a file system should be done synchronously.
async | Specify that input and output operations in a file system should be done asynchronously.

  
**_BINARIES_**  
A binary is source code that is compiled into an executable program, or otherwise assembled so that it is readable by the computer system. In addition, binaries can be pictures, word processing files, or spreadsheet files.

#### THE umount COMMAND

After using the mounted file system, it can be disassociated from the directory by unloading, or unmounting, the file system using the umount command. In order to unmount a file system, it must not be in use—for example, if a file on that file system is currently open in some application.

**_SYNTAX_**  
The syntax of the umount command is `umount [options] {mount point}`

**_umount COMMAND OPTIONS_**  
Some common command options for umount are described in the following table.

Option | Used To
-----|-----
\-f | Force a file system to be unmounted despite any detected issues.
\-l | Perform a "lazy" unmount, in which the file system is detached from the hierarchy, but references to that file system are not cleaned up until the file system is no longer being used.
\-R | Recursively unmount the specified directory mount points.
\-t {fs type} | Unmount only the file system types specified.
\-O {mount options} | Unmount only the file systems that are mounted with the specified options in the /etc/fstab file.
\--fake |Test the unmounting procedure without actually performing it.