# THE tune2fs COMMAND

#### THE tune2fs COMMAND

The `tune2fs` command helps you configure various "tunable" parameters associated with an ext2/3/4 file system. Tunable parameters enable you to remove reserved blocks, alter reserved block count, specify the number of mounts between checks, specify the time interval between checks, and more.

You can also use `tune2fs` to add a journal to an existing ext2 or ext3 file system (neither of which include journaling by default). If the file system is already mounted, the journal will be visible in the root directory of the file system. If the file system is not mounted, the journal will be hidden.

**_SYNTAX_**  
The syntax of the `tune2fs` command is `tune2fs [options] {device/file system name}`

**_tune2fs COMMAND OPTIONS_**  
The `tune2fs` command has various options.

Option | Used To
---- | ----
\-j | Add an ext3 journal to the existing file system.
\-i {d|m|w} | Specify the maximum time interval between file system checks in days, months, or weeks.
\-c {maximum mounts count} | Specify the maximum number of mounts between file system checks.
\-C {mount count} | Specify the number of times the file system can be mounted.
\-r {reserved blocks count} | Specify the number of reserved file system blocks.
\-e {continue|remount-ro|panic} | Specify the behavior of the kernel code, whether the file system should continue with normal execution, remount the file system in read-only mode, or cause a kernel panic, when errors are detected.
\-l | List the contents within the superblock (metadata) of the file system.
\-U {UUID} | Set the specified UUID for the file system.

  
**_SUPERBLOCK_**  
A file system's _superblock_ contains metadata about that file system, including its size, type, and status. The superblock is critical to the function of the file system, and if it becomes corrupt, you may be unable to mount and work with the file system. You can use a tool like `fsck` to repair the superblock, if necessary.