# Navigate the Linux Directory Structure

> **EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED**
> 
> _1.4 Given a scenario, manage storage in a Linux environment._

Now that you've managed storage at a lower level, you can begin to explore the standard file system structure that applies to most Linux distributions. You'll be navigating this file structure all throughout this course, as well as in your daily duties when you're on the job.

#### Types of Files

Linux contains regular files that include text files, executable files or programs, input for programs, and output from programs. Besides these, the Linux file system consists of other types of files, as described in the following table.

File Type | Description
----- | -----
Directories (d) | A container for other files.
Special files | Includes system files. These files are stored in the /dev directory. They can be block special files (b) or character special files(c). Block special files are large files that are used for data storage. Character special files are small files that are used for streaming of data.
Links (l) | Makes a file accessible in multiple parts of the system's file tree.
Domain sockets (s) | Provides inter-process networking that is protected by the file system's access control.
Named pipes (p) | Enables processes to communicate with each other without using network sockets.

  

> _Note: The individual letters correspond to how each file type is represented in the first bit of the `ls -l` command._

**_THE file COMMAND_**  
The file command is used to determine the type of file. The syntax of the command is `file [options] {file names}`

#### File Naming Conventions

A file name is a string of characters that identify a file. By using the right combination of characters in file names, you can ensure that the files are unique and easy to recognize.

On an ext4 file system, a file name may be up to 255 bytes long and contain any byte except NULL (\\0) and the forward slash (/). File names of user files may not be . and .. as these are special reserved file names. Various file systems may enforce different requirements for file names.

Although file names may contain a space, convention on Linux systems dictates that words in a file name are more frequently demarcated by a hyphen or an underscore, as these are easier to manage on the command-line. For example:`audit-file.txt` or `audit_file.txt` are acceptable.

#### The Filesystem Hierarchy Standard

The _Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS)_ is a collaborative document that specifies a set of guidelines for the names of files and directories and their locations on Linux systems. Most Linux distributions are FHS-compliant, and therefore support compatibility with other systems. The FHS also creates a naming convention that helps administrators, users, and applications consistently find the files they are looking for, as well as store files where other entities can easily find them.

> _Note: The complete documentation for FHS is available at **www.pathname.com/fhs/**._