# Standard Directories

#### Standard Directories

As defined in the FHS, the top-most directory in a Linux file system is the root directory, indicated by a single forward slash (/). Below the root directory are various subdirectories that are standardized as part of the FHS. The following table describes these directories in alphabetical order.

Directory | Description
----- | -----
/bin | Stores essential command-line utilities and binaries. For example, the /bin/ls is the binary for the ls command.
/boot | Stores the files necessary to boot the Linux operating system.
/dev | Stores hardware and software device drivers. This directory maintains file system entries that represent the devices connected to the system. For example, the /dev/sda1 partition.
/etc | Stores basic configuration files. For example, the /etc/samba/smb.conf file stores Samba configuration data.
/home | Stores users' home directories, including personal files.
/lib | Stores shared program libraries required by the kernel, command-line utilities, and binaries.
/media | Stores mount points for removable media such as CD-ROMs and floppy disks.
/mnt | This is the mount point for temporarily mounting file systems.
/opt | Stores optional files of large software packages. These packages normally create a subdirectory bearing their name under the /optdirectory and then place their files in the subdirectory. For example, the /opt/nessus subdirectory contains files for the Nessus vulnerability scanning program.
/proc | This is a virtual file system (VFS) that represents continually updated kernel information to the user in a typical file format. For example, the /proc/mounts file.
/root | The home directory of the root user.
/sbin | Stores binaries that are used for completing the booting process and also the ones that are used by the root user. For example, the /sbin/ifconfig file is the binary for the ifconfig command that is used to manage network interfaces on the system.
/sys | This is another VFS, and it primarily stores information about devices. For example, /sys/block includes links to devices that are stored in various subdirectories under the /sys/devices/location, which presents a hierarchy of devices in the kernel.
/tmp | Stores temporary files that may be lost on system shutdown.
/usr | A read-only directory that stores small programs and files accessible to all users.
/var | Stores variable files, or files that are expected to constantly change as the system runs. Examples include log files, printer spools, and some networking services' configuration files.

  
**_/usr SUBDIRECTORIES_**  
The /usr directory contains some important subdirectories.

Subdirectory | Description
------ | -------
/usr/bin | Includes executable programs that can be executed by all users.
/usr/local | Includes custom build applications that are stored here by default.
/usr/lib | Includes object libraries and internal binaries that are needed by the executable programs.
/usr/lib64 | Serves the same purpose as /usr/lib, except that it is meant only for 64-bit systems.
/usr/share | Includes read-only architecture independent files. These files can be shared among different architectures of an operating system.