# Troubleshoot Storage Issues

> **EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED**
> 
> _1.4 Given a scenario, manage storage in a Linux environment.  
> 2.2 Given a scenario, manage users and groups.  
> 4.1 Given a scenario, apply or acquire the appropriate user and/or group permissions and ownership._

Storage issues are quite common when working with any operating system, Linux included. In this topic, you'll do some investigative work to diagnose and suggest solutions for the many issues that can affect storage.

#### Common Storage Issues

Administrators can face a variety of issues with local storage devices. A key aspect of server management includes ensuring that storage devices are recognized by the system and available to the user.

Symptom | Causes and Solutions
--------- | ---------
Missing devices | One of your first steps in troubleshooting is to verify the physical connectivity of devices. In the case of storage devices, ensure the data and power cables are connected. For external storage devices, verify that the USB, FireWire, or other data cables are connected, as well as the power cord. Linux will detect devices and dynamically create a device file in the /dev directory. You can check the /dev directory to verify whether Linux has detected the storage device.
Missing volumes | After confirming the physical device is connected, then verify the volumes created on the storage devices are recognized. Both the parted and the fdisk utilities can be used to verify that the partitions exist. In addition, the /proc/partitionsfile can be checked for basic information about the volumes. These tools can also be used to check whether a file system has been installed on the volume. The two common file systems will be ext4 or XFS.
Missing mount points | During the Linux startup process, the /etc/fstab file is checked to see what partitions should be automatically mounted. Mistakes in the /etc/fstab file will result in the volumes not being properly mounted or available to the users. The mount command can be used to manually attach storage volumes on the file system.
Degraded storage | Degraded storage refers to a situation where a storage drive in a RAID array has failed. Depending on the RAID type, the system may still be able to read from and write to the array, even with a failed drive. Typically, however, the overall performance of the system will be reduced by the failed drive. The array can be rebuilt with a replacement storage drive to return to optimal performance.
Performance issues | Investigating storage performance issues begins with considering the technology being used on the system. On workstations, SATA hard drives may be sufficient, though solid-state drives (SSDs) are also quite common. Servers typically require a much more efficient I/O system and a great deal more storage capacity. SCSI, SAS, and SSDs are a common choice for server storage due to their efficiency. These drives are usually part of a RAID array when deployed on servers. Even when a suitably high performance storage technology is chosen, a failing disk, controller, or other hardware component of the storage device can lead to performance issues.
Resource exhaustion | Each file that is opened in Linux is assigned a file descriptor that keeps track of the file when it is open. It is possible, on a very busy server where a great many files may be opened simultaneously, that the descriptors could all be consumed. One significant effect of this resource exhaustion is that most Linux commands will not run. You can resolve the issue by rebooting the server. The ulimit command can then be used to adjust the available number of file descriptors.
Storage integrity/bad blocks | Traditional magnetic hard disk drives may degrade over time. One common symptom of this aging is bad blocks, or sections of the hard disk drive that cannot be written to or read from. The file system will automatically mark these blocks and not attempt to use them to store data. If there are too many bad blocks, performance and storage capacity may be diminished. Too many bad blocks is also an indication of a failing hard disk drive. You should consider replacing the hard disk drive immediately.

**_THE ulimit COMMAND_**  
The syntax of the ulimit command is `ulimit [options] [limit]`

For example, to set a limit for the maximum number of open file descriptors:

```Shell
ulimit -n 512
``` 

You can display all of the current limits by issuing `ulimit -a`