# Additional Storage Troubleshooting Techniques

#### Additional Storage Troubleshooting Techniques

Troubleshooting storage issues should start with the simple and work toward the more complex. Here are a few examples:

If a user claims they cannot create a file, verify that they have the appropriate permissions for the directory. From there, you might check to ensure the storage area is available (mounted partitions, both local and network), and that there is free space on the destination storage location. After those more simple steps, verify that the inode pool has not been exhausted by using the `df -i` command. If the inode pool has been exhausted, you'll need to investigate the affected file system to see if it contains many unnecessary files, like temporary files, and delete them with the rm command.

In the event that a storage location appears to be unavailable, start your troubleshooting by verifying the physical connection for the storage device. From there, you would verify whether the storage device is recognized by the system—see the `/dev/` and `/proc/` directories for that information. You should also check configuration files for errors, including the `/etc/fstab` file. This is also true if you're mounting drives from network servers, such as NFS or Samba. Finally, you can consider using tools like`fsck`, the `XFS toolset`, or the `ext4 toolset`.

#### Guidelines for Troubleshooting Storage Issues

Use the following guidelines when troubleshooting storage issues.

**_TROUBLESHOOT STORAGE ISSUES_**  
When troubleshooting storage issues:

-   Ensure the devices are physically connected to the system.
-   Ensure the devices are powered.
-   Ensure the devices are turned on, if applicable.
-   Verify the device is recognized by the system by checking the `/proc/` directory.
-   Confirm that the configuration files do not contain any typographical errors.
-   Ensure the configuration files have been reloaded if you have made changes to them.
-   Confirm that there is enough storage capacity.
-   Confirm that the I/O workload is not overwhelming the device.
-   Use the `partprobe` command to cause the system to scan for new storage devices and partitions.