# Packet Capture and tcpdump

PACKET CAPTURE AND TCPDUMP

Packet and protocol analysis is another crucial security assessment and monitoring process:

-   **Packet analysis** refers to deep-down frame-by-frame scrutiny of captured frames.
    
-   **Protocol analysis** means using statistical tools to analyze a sequence of packets, or packet trace.
    

Packet and protocol analysis depends on a sniffer tool to capture and decode the frames of data. Network traffic can be captured from a host or from a network segment. Using a host means that only traffic directed at that host is captured. Capturing from a network segment can be performed by a switched port analyzer (SPAN) port (or mirror port). This means that a network switch is configured to copy frames passing over designated source ports to a destination port, which the packet sniffer is connected to. Sniffing can also be performed over a network cable segment by using a test access port (TAP). This means that a device is inserted in the cabling to copy frames passing over it. There are passive and active (powered) versions.

Typically, sniffers are placed inside a firewall or close to a server of particular importance. The idea is usually to identify malicious traffic that has managed to get past the firewall. A single sniffer can generate an exceptionally large amount of data, so you cannot just put multiple sensors everywhere in the network without provisioning the resources to manage them properly. Depending on network size and resources, one or just a few sensors will be deployed to monitor key assets or network paths.

**tcpdump** is a command line packet capture utility for Linux ([linux.die.net/man/8/tcpdump](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/packet-capture-and-tcpdump)). The basic syntax of the command is `tcpdump -i eth0`, where `eth0` is the interface to listen on. The utility will then display captured packets until halted manually (Ctrl+C). Frames can be saved to a .pcap file using the `-w` option. Alternatively, you can open a pcap file using the `-r` option.

`tcpdump` is often used with some sort of filter expression to reduce the number of frames that are captured:

-   Type—filter by `host`, `net`, `port`, or `portrange`.
-   Direction—filter by source (`src`) or destination (`dst`) parameters (`host, network, or port`).
-   Protocol—filter by a named protocol rather than port number (for example, `arp`, `icmp`, `ip`, `ip6`, `tcp`, `udp`, and so on).

Filter expressions can be combined by using Boolean operators:

-   and (`&&`)
-   or (`||`)
-   not (`!`)

Filter syntax can be made even more detailed by using parentheses to group expressions. A complex filter expression should be enclosed by quotes. For example, the following command filters frames to those with the source IP 10.1.0.100 and destination port 53 or 80:

`tcpdump -i eth0 "src host 10.1.0.100 and (dst port 53 or dst port 80)"`