# Packet Injection and Replay

PACKET INJECTION AND REPLAY

Some reconnaissance techniques and tests depend on sending forged or spoofed network traffic. Often, network sniffing software libraries allow frames to be inserted (or injected) into the network stream. There are also tools that allow for different kinds of packets to be crafted and manipulated. Well-known tools used for packet injection include Dsniff ([monkey.org/~dugsong/dsniff](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/packet-injection-and-replay)), Ettercap ([ettercap-project.org](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/packet-injection-and-replay)), Scapy ([scapy.net](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/packet-injection-and-replay)), and hping ([hping.org](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/packet-injection-and-replay)).

**hping**  
`hping` is an open-source spoofing tool that provides a penetration tester with the ability to craft network packets to exploit vulnerable firewalls and IDSs. `hping` can perform the following types of test:

-   Host/port detection and firewall testing—like Nmap, `hping` can be used to probe IP addresses and TCP/UDP ports for responses.
-   Traceroute—if ICMP is blocked on a local network, `hping` offers alternative ways of mapping out network routes. `hping` can use arbitrary packet formats, such as probing DNS ports using TCP or UDP, to perform traces.
-   Denial of service (DoS)—`hping` can be used to perform flood-based DoS attacks from randomized source IPs. This can be used in a test environment to determine how well a firewall, IDS, or load balancer responds to such attacks.

**tcpreplay**  
As the name suggests, **tcpreplay** takes previously captured traffic that has been saved to a .pcap file and replays it through a network interface ([linux.die.net/man/1/tcpreplay](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/packet-injection-and-replay)). Optionally, fields in the capture can be changed, such as substituting MAC or IP addresses. `tcpreplay` is useful for analysis purposes. If you have captured suspect traffic, you can replay it through a monitored network interface to test intrusion detection rules.