# Zero-day and Legacy Platform Vulnerabilities

#### ZERO-DAY AND LEGACY PLATFORM VULNERABILITIES

  
Even if effective patch management procedures are in place, attackers may still be able to use software vulnerabilities as an attack vector. A vulnerability that is exploited before the developer knows about it or can release a patch is called a **zero-day**. These can be extremely destructive, as it can take the vendor some time to develop a patch, leaving systems vulnerable in the interim.

> _The term zero-day is usually applied to the vulnerability itself but can also refer to an attack or malware that exploits it. The EternalBlue zero-day exploit makes for an instructive case study ([wired.com/story/eternalblue-leaked-nsa-spy-tool-hacked-world](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/zero-day-and-legacy-platform-vulnerabilities))._

Zero-day vulnerabilities have significant financial value. A zero-day exploit for a mobile OS can be worth millions of dollars. Consequently, an adversary will only use a zero-day vulnerability for high value attacks. State security and law enforcement agencies are known to stockpile zero-days to facilitate the investigation of crimes.

A legacy platform is one that is no longer supported with security patches by its developer or vendor. This could be a PC/laptop/smartphone, networking appliance, peripheral device, Internet of Things device, operating system, database/programming environment, or software application. By definition, legacy platforms are unpatchable. Such systems are highly likely to be vulnerable to exploits and must be protected by security controls other than patching, such as isolating them to networks that an attacker cannot physically connect to.