# Rules of Engagement

#### RULES OF ENGAGEMENT

Security assessments might be performed by employees or may be contracted to consultants or other third parties. **Rules of engagement** specify what activity is permitted or not permitted. These rules should be made explicit in a contractual agreement. For example, a pen test should have a concrete objective and scope rather than a vague type of "Break into the network" aim. There may be systems and data that the penetration tester should not attempt to access or exploit. Where a pen test involves third-party services (such as a cloud provider), authorization to conduct the test must also be sought from the third party.

> _The Pentest-Standard website provides invaluable commentary on the conduct of pen tests ([pentest-standard.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tree.html](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/rules-of-engagement))._

**Attack Profile** Attacks come from different sources and motivations. You may wish to test both resistance to external (targeted and untargeted) and insider threats. You need to determine how much information about the network to provide to the consultant:

-   **Black box** (or unknown environment)—the consultant is given no privileged information about the network and its security systems. This type of test would require the tester to perform a reconnaissance phase. Black box tests are useful for simulating the behavior of an external threat.
    
-   **White box** (or known environment)—the consultant is given complete access to information about the network. This type of test is sometimes conducted as a follow-up to a black box test to fully evaluate flaws discovered during the black box test. The tester skips the reconnaissance phase in this type of test. White box tests are useful for simulating the behavior of a privileged insider threat.
    
-   **Gray box** (or partially known environment)—the consultant is given some information; typically, this would resemble the knowledge of junior or non-IT staff to model particular types of insider threats. This type of test requires partial reconnaissance on the part of the tester. Gray box tests are useful for simulating the behavior of an unprivileged insider threat.
    

A test where the attacker has no knowledge of the system but where staff are informed that a test will take place is referred to as a _blind_ (or _single-blind_) test. A test where staff are not made aware that a pen test will take place is referred to as a _double-blind test_.

**Bug Bounty**  
A **bug bounty** is a program operated by a software vendor or website operator where rewards are given for reporting vulnerabilities. Where a pen test is performed on a contractual basis, costed by the consultant, a bug bounty program is a way of crowd sourcing detection of vulnerabilities. Some bug bounties are operated as internal programs, with rewards for employees only. Most are open to public submissions ([tripwire.com/state-of-security/security-data-protection/cyber-security/essential-bug-bounty-programs](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/rules-of-engagement)).