# Passive and Active Reconnaissance

#### PASSIVE AND ACTIVE RECONNAISSANCE

Analysis of adversary TTPs has established various "kill chain" models of the way modern cyber-attacks are conducted. A penetration testing engagement will generally use the same sort of techniques.

In the first reconnaissance phase for black box testing, the pen tester establishes a profile of the target of investigation and surveys the attack surface for weaknesses. Reconnaissance activities can be classed as passive or active. Passive reconnaissance is not likely to alert the target of the investigation as it means querying publicly available information. Active reconnaissance has more risk of detection. Active techniques might involve gaining physical access to premises or using scanning tools on the target's web services and other networks.

-   Open Source Intelligence (OSINT)—using web search tools, social media, and sites that scan for vulnerabilities in Internet-connected devices and services ([securitytrails.com/blog/osint-tools](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/passive-and-active-reconnaissance)) to obtain information about the target. OSINT aggregation tools, such as theHarvester ([github.com/laramies/theHarvester](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/passive-and-active-reconnaissance)), collect and organize this data from multiple sources. OSINT requires almost no privileged access as it relies on finding information that the company makes publicly available, whether intentionally or not. This is a passive technique.
    
-   **Social engineering**—this refers to obtaining information, physical access to premises, or even access to a user account through the art of persuasion. While the amount of interaction may vary, this can be classed as an active technique.
    
-   **Footprinting**—using software tools, such as Nmap ([nmap.org](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/passive-and-active-reconnaissance)), to obtain information about a host or network topology. Scans may be launched against web hosts or against wired or wireless network segments, if the attacker can gain physical access to them. While passive footprinting is possible (by limiting it to **packet sniffing**), most scan techniques require active network connections with the target that can be picked up by detection software.
    
-   **War driving**—mapping the location and type (frequency channel and security method) of wireless networks operated by the target. Some of these networks may be accessible from outside the building. Simply sniffing the presence of wireless networks is a passive activity, though there is the risk of being observed by security guards or cameras. An attacker might be able to position rogue access points, such as the Hak5 Pineapple ([shop.hak5.org/products/wifi-pineapple](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/passive-and-active-reconnaissance)), or perform other wireless attacks using intelligence gathered from war driving.
    
-   **Drones/unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV)**—allow the tester to reconnoiter campus premises, and even to perform war driving from the air (war flying). A tool such as the Wi-Fi Pineapple can easily be incorporated on a drone ([hackaday.com/2018/05/27/watch-dogs-inspired-hacking-drone-takes-flight](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/passive-and-active-reconnaissance)). Drones also provide a vector for one enduringly popular social engineering technique; dropping infected USB media around premises, with the expectation that at least some of them will be picked up and used ([blackhat.com/docs/us-16/materials/us-16-Bursztein-Does-Dropping-USB-Drives-In-Parking-Lots-And-Other-Places-Really-Work.pdf](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/passive-and-active-reconnaissance)).