# Pen Test Attack Life Cycle

#### PEN TEST ATTACK LIFE CYCLE

In the kill chain attack life cycle, reconnaissance is followed by an initial exploitation phase where a software tool is used to gain some sort of access to the target's network. This foothold might be accomplished using a phishing email and payload or by obtaining credentials via social engineering. Having gained the foothold, the pen tester can then set about securing and widening access. A number of techniques are required:

-   **Persistence**—the tester's ability to reconnect to the compromised host and use it as a remote access tool (RAT) or backdoor. To do this, the tester must establish a command and control (C2 or C&C) network to use to control the compromised host, upload additional attack tools, and download exfiltrated data. The connection to the compromised host will typically require a malware executable to run after shut down/log off events and a connection to a network port and the attacker's IP address to be available.
    
-   Privilege escalation—persistence is followed by further reconnaissance, where the pen tester attempts to map out the internal network and discover the services running on it and accounts configured to access it. Moving within the network or accessing data assets are likely to require higher privilege levels. For example, the original malware may have run with local administrator privileges on a client workstation or as the Apache user on a web server. Another exploit might allow malware to execute with system/root privileges, or to use network administrator privileges on other hosts, such as application servers.
    
-   **Lateral movement**—gaining control over other hosts. This is done partly to discover more opportunities to widen access (harvesting credentials, detecting software vulnerabilities, and gathering other such "loot"), partly to identify where valuable data assets might be located, and partly to evade detection. Lateral movement usually involves executing the attack tools over remote process shares or using scripting tools, such as PowerShell.
    
-   Pivoting—hosts that hold the most valuable data are not normally able to access external networks directly. If the pen tester achieves a foothold on a perimeter server, a pivot allows them to bypass a network boundary and compromise servers on an inside network. A pivot is normally accomplished using remote access and tunneling protocols, such as Secure Shell (SSH), virtual private networking (VPN), or remote desktop.
    
-   Actions on Objectives—for a threat actor, this means stealing data from one or more systems (data exfiltration). From the perspective of a pen tester, it would be a matter of the scope definition whether this would be attempted. In most cases, it is usually sufficient to show that actions on objectives could be achieved.
    
-   Cleanup—for a threat actor, this means removing evidence of the attack, or at least evidence that could implicate the threat actor. For a pen tester, this phase means removing any backdoors or tools and ensuring that the system is not less secure than the pre-engagement state.