# Linux Distributions

#### **Linux Distributions**

As a family of operating systems, there is no official OS called "Linux." Instead, there are distinct members of the family called **_Linux distributions_**, or **_distros._** All Linux distros are based on the Linux kernel; they differ primarily in what additional software they add on top of the kernel to create a fully functional OS, as well as the version of the kernel they run. There are also differences in community, rate of release, and other factors. Choosing a distribution is a matter of identifying which one most closely aligns with your business needs as well as your familiarity with its tools.

#### **List of Linux Distributions**

There are hundreds of distros available. The following table includes some of the most historic and/or popular ones.

Distro | Notes
------ | ------
Slackware | This is the oldest distro that is still actively maintained, initially released in 1993. It is intended to be the most "Unix-like" distro and is most appropriate for advanced Linux users.
Debian | This is another early distro, and one that is composed entirely of free software. It is also the basis for many other derivative distros.
Ubuntu | This is one of the most popular distros for general use and is based on Debian.
Kali Linux | This Debian-based distro is used for penetration testing and other cybersecurity tasks.
Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) | Unlike most distros that are available free of charge, RHEL comes with paid customer support provided by Red Hat, Inc. This distro is common for servers in corporate environments.
CentOS | This distro is essentially the no-cost version of RHEL. The functionality is nearly identical, but no customer support is provided.
Fedora | This distro is sponsored by Red Hat and is the upstream source of RHEL. It has multiple editions that each target different computing roles, and tends to run the latest version of the Linux kernel.
openSUSE | This distro is sponsored by SUSE Linux GmbH and targets several computing roles. It strives to incorporate only tools that qualify as FOSS.
SUSE Linux Enterprise Server (SLES) | This distro shares a code base with openSUSE, but is intended to be more stable than openSUSE. Like RHEL, SLES comes with paid customer support.
Arch Linux | This distro is targeted at experienced users and focuses on simplicity as its driving philosophy. Its online documentation repository, ArchWiki, is one of the most comprehensive sources of Linux documentation.

> Note: Many Linux distros include proprietary software and are not entirely FOSS.
> 
> Note: For more information about Linux distros, visit [https://distrowatch.com/](https://distrowatch.com/)

**_MORE ON CentOS_**

The CentOS Linux distribution is a stable, predictable, manageable, and reproducible platform derived from the sources of RHEL. CentOS is maintained by the CentOS Project, a community-driven free software effort that has its own governing board. The members of the CentOS Project work independently of the RHEL team. However, CentOS benefits from Red Hat's ongoing contributions and investment, and the CentOS trademark is owned by Red Hat.

This course uses CentOS because it provides a free enterprise-class computing platform that aims to be functionally compatible with the upstream product (RHEL) that it derives from. CentOS does not contain Red Hat's product or certifications, although it is built from the same sources as the upstream enterprise products. More details about this are available in the CentOS FAQ here: **[https://wiki.centos.org/FAQ/General](https://wiki.centos.org/FAQ/General).**

For production environments, the licensed and fully supported RHEL product is recommended.