# Uses for Linux

#### Uses for Linux

One of the main advantages of Linux is that it is highly extensible. As a result, Linux has been applied to many different computing roles. The following table describes these roles.

Role | Notes
-------- | --------
Servers | Servers provide an array of services to multiple users over a network. Market share figures for servers are not always easy to pin down, but most sources agree that Linux dominates the server market. More than 90% of the top one million domains are run on Linux web servers, and more than 90% of public cloud servers on the Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) platform run Linux.
Workstations | Workstations are more powerful versions of a home desktop and are typically geared toward technical work such as software development. Linux is more common on workstations than it is on PCs, but it still lags behind Windows and macOS in this area.
Mainframes and supercomputers | Mainframes are large, highly advanced computers that excel at processing many transactions at once. Supercomputers are machines at the cutting edge of computing technology that excel at performing complex calculations as quickly as possible. Linux dominates both of these markets—the top 500 fastest supercomputers in the world as of 2018 all run Linux.
Mobile devices | Mobile devices typically include smartphones and tablets, or any device that is small enough to fit in the hand. The mobile operating system Android is based on the Linux kernel and has over 80% of the global market share for mobile devices.
Personal Computer(PC) | This typically includes desktops and laptops, or any non-mobile device that is geared toward non-technical home use. This is one of the few markets where Linux has seen minimal penetration; around 2% of users run Linux as a desktop platform.
Embedded systems | Embedded systems are computer hardware and software systems that have a specific function within a larger system. These larger systems can include everything from home appliances like microwaves to large industrial machines. Embedded systems running Linux comprise the majority of the market.

