# The CLI

#### **The CLI**

The _**command-line interface (CLI)**_ is a text-based interface between the user and the operating system that accepts input in the form of commands. The CLI presents a command prompt to the user, and the user enters a command to interact with the system in a variety of ways. Working at the command-line is an important tool in any administrator's arsenal. Developers and administrators often use the CLI, whereas regular users will typically rely on a graphical user interface (GUI).

Comfort at the command-line is essential for administrators. Command-line administration is an assumed skill in Linux. The GUI is not a required component of Linux. In fact, Linux includes many GUIs. Any or none of those may be installed on the system. Assuming you want to maximize the use of hardware for the system's specified purpose, you can perform all administration at the CLI.

> Note: In Linux, the CLI is case-sensitive.

#### **CLI Advantages and Challenges**

Some advantages to using the CLI include:

-   It's faster for the system to process.
-   It's faster for administrators to enter information.
-   Commands can be stored in text files called scripts that you can execute with one command, resulting in a long series of activities by the system.
-   Scripts can be scheduled to execute on a regular basis.
-   Additional options are available in the CLI that may not be present in the GUI.

Likewise, there are some challenges to using the CLI:

-   It's more difficult to learn than a GUI.
-   Commands have many options and are not always consistent.
-   It's often mistakenly thought of as legacy.
-   There are many command-line environments among the Linux, Unix, macOS, and Windows platforms.