# Basic Bash Commands

#### **Basic Bash Commands**

There are several commands that are important for accomplishing basic tasks. Many of these commands will be covered in greater depth throughout the course but are included in this topic to provide basic command vocabulary and to get you started with hands-on practice at the Bash shell.

Command | Description | Examples
--------- | ---------- | ---------
echo | Repeats input back to the user on the screen. Commonly used to send information to the user in a script. | echo 'Good morning!'  returns "Good morning!" at the CLI.
ls | Lists the contents of a directory. Can be given options to view permissions, hidden files, etc. | \- ls lists contents of current directory.  \- ls -a includes hidden files.  \- ls -l outputs in long format.  \- ls /var/log lists contents of specified directory.
pwd | Displays the current working directory you are in. | pwd returns the path to your current working directory.
cd | Changes your current working directory. | \- cd /var/log changes your current directory to /var/log  \- cd /etc changes your current directory to /etc
touch | Updates timestamp on an existing file, but can also be used to create an empty file. | touch file1 updates the timestamp on file1 if it exists; creates file1 if it doesn't.
cp | Copies a file or directory to another location. | cp file1 file2 copies the contents of file1 to file2.
mkdir | Creates a directory. | mkdir newdir creates a new directory called newdir.
  

#### **File Viewing Commands**

Linux system configurations are held in text files, so you'll need to be able to view the contents of those files.

The cat command is used to view the contents of a file without the option to edit that file. An example of using cat is cat file1 to show the contents of file1 on the screen.

The less command is used to view the contents of a file when those contents won't fit entirely on one screen. This command breaks the content output into pages that you can scroll through at the CLI. An example of using less is less file1 to break the contents of file1 into multiple pages when its contents are lengthy enough to go past a single screen. Press **Page Up** and **Page Down** to scroll screens, and press q to exit the command.