# File Editing Commands

#### **File Editing Commands**

Just as you'll need to view the contents of text files, you'll also need to edit them.

Command | Description | Examples
-------- | -------- | --------
vim | Starts a powerful text editor and the default for Linux. | 1\. vim file1 to open a text file in command mode.  2\. Press i to enter insert mode.  3\. Press Esc to leave insert mode.  4\. :wq to save the file and quit.
nano | Starts a simple, user-friendly text editor. It may not be installed on all distros. | 1\. nano file1 to open a text file.  2\. Enter text directly in the interface.  3\. Press Ctrl+O to save changes.  \n4\. Press Ctrl+X to quit.
gedit | Starts a GUI text editor that is easy to use. Requires a desktop environment to be installed. | 1\. Select Applications→Accessories→Text Editor.  2\. Enter text directly in the interface.  3\. Use the menu to save and quit.

> Note: These commands are valid at the time of this writing for most versions of Linux. You may need to consult a version-specific reference if these commands do not work for your version.

#### **Power Management Commands**

Periodically, it may be necessary to reboot or shut down the system. There are several commands to accomplish this, but for now you will focus on the shutdown command. Some examples of the shutdown command include:

-   shutdown -h now shuts down the system with no time delay.
-   shutdown -h -t 90 shuts down the system in 90 seconds.
-   shutdown -r now reboots the system with no time delay.

> _Note: The_ **reboot** _command essentially performs the same task as the_ **shutdown -r now** _command._

**THE sleep COMMAND**

The sleep command is used to pause system activities for a specified time. The command sleep {seconds} hangs up the prompt for the number of seconds specified.