# Superuser Commands

#### **Superuser Commands**

In Linux, the user with administrator credentials is the superuser. The superuser is typically named root. It is generally a bad practice to log onto the system as the superuser, and you should get in the habit of logging in with a non-privileged account. However, there will be times when you need to assume the privileges of the superuser in order to perform an administrative task.

The su - command ("substitute user") switches user credentials, and su - root switches credentials to the root user. The system will prompt you to enter the root user's password for authorization purposes. Once you are logged in as root, you will be able to perform tasks that you were previously unable to.

#### **Shell History**

The Bash shell keeps a history file of all commands entered. You can reference this file and repeat commands, increasing efficiency and consistency of entered commands.

Examples of using shell history include:

-   The history command outputs the most recently entered commands in a list format.
-   The **Up Arrow** and **Down Arrow** keys cycle through the command history. Press **Enter** to reissue the desired command from the history.

#### **Tab Completion**

The Bash shell supports tab completion, enabling users to type in enough of a command, file name, or directory name to be unique, then filling in the remainder of the entry. This feature reduces typographical errors and speeds up the entering of commands.

Examples of using tab completion include:

-   Typing his and pressing **Tab** will automatically fill the rest of the history command.
-   Typing cd /home/user1/Aug and pressing **Tab** will automatically fill the directory path to cd /home/user1/AugustProjects assuming such a directory already exists.