# Encryption Ciphers and Keys

#### ENCRYPTION CIPHERS AND KEYS

While a hash function can be used to prove the integrity of data, it cannot be used to store or transmit data. The plaintext cannot be recovered from the digest. An encryption algorithm is a type of cryptographic process that encodes data so that it can be recovered, or decrypted. The use of a **key** with the encryption cipher ensures that decryption can only be performed by authorized persons.

**Substitution and Transposition Ciphers**  
To understand how encryption works, it is helpful to consider simple substitution and transposition ciphers. A substitution cipher involves replacing units (a letter or blocks of letters) in the plaintext with different ciphertext. Simple substitution ciphers rotate or scramble letters of the alphabet. For example, ROT13 (an example of a Caesarian cipher) rotates each letter 13 places (so A becomes N for instance). The ciphertext "Uryyb Jbeyq" means "Hello World".

In contrast to substitution ciphers, the units in a transposition cipher stay the same in plaintext and ciphertext, but their order is changed, according to some mechanism. Consider how the ciphertext "HLOOLELWRD" has been produced:

`H L O O L

E L W R D` 

The letters are simply written as columns and then the rows are concatenated to make the ciphertext. It's called a rail fence cipher. All modern encryption uses these basic techniques of substitution and transposition, but in much more complex ways.

**Keys and Secret Ciphers**  
Encryption ciphers use a key to increase the security of the process. For example, if you consider the Caesar cipher ROT13, you should realize that the key is 13. You could use 17 to achieve a different ciphertext from the same method. The key is important because it means that even if the cipher method is known, a message still cannot be decrypted without knowledge of the specific key. This is particularly important in modern cryptography. Attempting to hide details of the cipher (a secret algorithm) amounts to "security by obscurity." Modern ciphers are made stronger by being open to review (cryptanalysis) by third-party researchers.