# Cipher Suites and Modes of Operation

#### CIPHER SUITES AND MODES OF OPERATION

In a protocol such as Transport Layer Security (TLS), the requirements to both authenticate the identity of the server and to encrypt communications between the server and client need to be fulfilled by separate cryptographic products and cipher implementations. The combination of ciphers supported is referred to as a cipher suite. The server and client negotiate mutually compatible **cipher suites** as part of the TLS handshake.

So far, we have identified two parts of the cipher suite:

-   A _signature algorithm_, used to assert the identity of the server's public key and facilitate authentication.
    
-   A _key exchange/agreement algorithm_, used by the client and server to derive the same bulk encryption symmetric key.
    

The final part of a cipher suite determines the bulk encryption cipher. When AES is selected as the symmetric cipher, it has to be used in a **mode of operation** that supports a stream of network data.

**Cipher Block Chaining (CBC) Mode**  
The **Cipher Block Chaining (CBC)** mode applies an initialization vector (IV) to the first plaintext block to ensure that the key produces a unique ciphertext from any given plaintext. The output of the first ciphertext block is then combined with the next plaintext block using an **XOR** operation. This process is repeated through the full "chain" of blocks, which (again) ensures that no plaintext block produces the same ciphertext. CBC needs to use padding to ensure that the data to encrypt is an exact multiple of the block size.

> _XOR is a logical operation that outputs 1 only when the inputs are 1 and 0._

**Counter Mode**  
**Counter mode** makes the AES algorithm work as a stream cipher. Counter mode applies an IV plus an incrementing counter value to the key to generate a keystream. The keystream is then XOR'ed to the data in the plaintext blocks. Each block can be processed individually and consequently in parallel, improving performance. Also, counter modes do not need to use padding. Any unused space in the last block is simply discarded.