# Collisions and the Birthday Attack

#### COLLISIONS AND THE BIRTHDAY ATTACK

A **birthday attack** is a type of brute force attack aimed at exploiting collisions in hash functions. A **collision** is where a function produces the same hash value for two different plaintexts. This type of attack can be used for the purpose of forging a digital signature. The attack works as follows:

1.  The attacker creates a malicious document and a benign document that produce the same hash value. The attacker submits the benign document for signing by the target.
    
2.  The attacker then removes the signature from the benign document and adds it to the malicious document, forging the target's signature.
    

The trick here is being able to create a malicious document that outputs the same hash as the benign document. The birthday paradox means that the computational time required to do this is less than might be expected. The birthday paradox asks how large must a group of people be so that the chance of two of them sharing a birthday is 50%. The answer is 23, but people who are not aware of the paradox often answer around 180 (365/2). The point is that the chances of someone sharing a particular birthday are small, but the chances of any two people sharing any birthday get better and better as you add more people: 1 – (365 \* (365 − 1) \* (365 – 2) ... \* (365 – (N − 1)/365N)

To exploit the paradox, the attacker creates multiple malicious and benign documents, both featuring minor changes (punctuation, extra spaces, and so on). Depending on the length of the hash and the limits to the non-suspicious changes that can be introduced, if the attacker can generate sufficient variations, then the chance of matching hash outputs can be better than 50%.

This means that to protect against the birthday attack, encryption algorithms must demonstrate collision avoidance (that is, to reduce the chance that different inputs will produce the same output). To exploit the birthday paradox, the attacker generally has to be able to manipulate both documents/messages, referred to as a _chosen prefix attack_ ([sha-mbles.github.io](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/collisions-and-the-birthday-attack)). The birthday paradox method has been used successfully to exploit collisions in the MD5 function to create fake digital certificates that appear to have been signed by a certificate authority in a trusted root chain ([trailofbits.files.wordpress.com/2012/06/flame-md5.pdf](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/collisions-and-the-birthday-attack)).