# DOMAIN NAME RESOLUTION

#### DOMAIN NAME RESOLUTION

The Domain Name System (DNS) resolves fully qualified domain names (FQDNs) to IP addresses. It uses a distributed database system that contains information on domains and hosts within those domains. The information is distributed among many name servers, each of which holds part of the database. The name servers work over port 53. Domain name resolution is a security-critical service and the target of many attacks on both local network and the Internet.

**Domain Hijacking**  
**Domain hijacking** is an attack where an adversary acquires a domain for a company's trading name or trademark, or perhaps some spelling variation thereof. While there are often trademark and intellectual property laws against doing this, companies need to be careful to renew domain names that they want to continue to use and to protect the credentials used to manage the registration. A domain name must be re-registered every year.

In a domain hijacking attack an adversary gains control over the registration of a domain name, allowing the host records to be configured to IP addresses of the attacker's choosing. This might be accomplished by supplying false credentials to the domain registrar when applying for a new domain name or re-registering an existing one. An attacker might also be able to exploit the legitimate account used to manage the domain (via a weak password or malware installed on a client computer) or even to compromise the domain registrar's security procedures in some way (upguard.com/blog/domain-hijacking).

A company whose domain has been hijacked is likely to find that they are locked out of the registrar's management console, or that the domain has been transferred to another registrar, often operating in a different country. The whois command can be used to lookup domain registration information to try to detect misuse in other cases.

**Uniform Resource Locator (URL) Redirection**  
A uniform resource locator (URL) is an address for the pages and files published on websites. A URL comprises a FQDN, file path, and often script parameters. URL redirection refers to the use of HTTP redirects to open a page other than the one the user requested. This is often used for legitimate purposes—to send the user to a login page or to send a mobile device browser to a responsive version of the site, for instance. If the redirect is not properly validated by the web application, an attacker can craft a phishing link that might appear legitimate to a naïve user, such as:

```Markdown
https://trusted.foo/login.php?url="https://tru5ted.foo"
``` 

A threat actor could also compromise a web server and add redirects in .htaccess files. A redirect could also be inserted as JavaScript, either through compromising the server or by uploading a script via a poorly validated form.

**Domain Reputation**  
If your domain, website, or email servers have been hijacked, they are likely to be used for spam or distributing malware. This will lead to complaints and the likelihood of the domain being listed on a block list. You should set up monitoring using a site such as talosintelligence.com/reputation\_center to detect misuse early.