# Implement Secure Application Protocols

> **EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED**
> 
> _2.1 Explain the importance of security concepts in an enterprise environment  
> 3.1 Given a scenario, implement secure protocols_

The network infrastructure of switches, routers, access points, and secure hosts is implemented for the purpose of running services. The application protocols that enable web, email, and VoIP require secure configuration too.

#### HYPERTEXT TRANSFER PROTOCOL AND WEB SERVICES

The foundation of web technology is the **HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP)**. HTTP enables clients (typically web browsers) to request resources from an HTTP server. A client connects to the HTTP server using an appropriate TCP port (the default is port 80) and submits a request for a resource, using a uniform resource locator (URL). The server acknowledges the request and responds with the data (or an error message).

The response and request payload formats are defined in an HTTP header. The HTTP payload is usually used to serve HTML web pages, which are plaintext files with coded tags (HyperText Markup Language) describing how the page should be formatted. A web browser can interpret the tags and display the text and other resources associated with the page, such as binary picture or sound files linked to the HTML page.

HTTP also features a forms mechanism (POST) whereby a user can submit data from the client to the server. HTTP is nominally a stateless protocol; this means that the server preserves no information about the client during a session. However, the basic functionality of HTTP servers is often extended by support for scripting and programmable features (web applications). Servers can also set text file cookies to preserve session information. These coding features, plus integration with databases, increase flexibility and interactivity, but also increase the attack surface which exposes more vulnerabilities.

> _Many argue that HTTP is a stateful protocol. Version 2 of HTTP adds more state-preserving features (blog.zamicol.com/2017/05/is-http2-stateful-protocol-application.html)._