# Network Segmentation

####  NETWORK SEGMENTATION

A network **segment** is one where all the hosts attached to the segment can use local (layer 2) forwarding to communicate freely with one another. The hosts are said to be within the same broadcast domain. **Segregation** means that the hosts in one segment are restricted in the way they communicate with hosts in other segments. They might only be able to communicate over certain network ports, for instance.

>  _"Freely" means that no network appliances or policies are preventing communications. Each host may be configured with access rules or host firewalls or other security tools to prevent access, but the "view from the network" is that hosts in the same segment are all free to attempt to communicate._

Assuming an Ethernet network, network segments can be established physically by connecting all the hosts in one segment to one switch and all the hosts in another segment to another switch. The two switches can be connected by a router and the router can enforce network policies or access control lists (ACL) to restrict communications between the two segments.

Because enterprise networks typically feature hundreds of switching appliances and network ports (not to mention wireless access and remote access), segmentation is more likely to be enforced using virtual LANs (VLANs). Any given switch port can be assigned to any VLAN in the same topology, regardless of the physical location of the switch. The segmentation enforced by VLANs at layer 2 can be mapped to logical divisions enforced by IP subnets at layer 3.