# Other Secure Network Design Considerations

#### OTHER SECURE NETWORK DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS

Network design must also be considered for data centers and the cloud. A data center is a facility dedicated to hosting servers, rather than a mix of server and client workstation machines.

**East-West Traffic**  
Traffic that goes to and from a data center is referred to as north-south. This traffic represents clients outside the data center making requests and receiving responses. In data centers that support cloud and other Internet services, most traffic is actually between servers within the data center. This is referred to as **east-west traffic**.

Consider a client uploading a photograph as part of a social media post. The image file might be checked by an analysis server for policy violations (indecent or copyright images, for instance), a search/indexing service would be updated with the image metadata, the image would be replicated to servers that provision content delivery networks (CDNs), the image would be copied to backup servers, and so on. A single request to the cloud tends to cascade to multiple requests and transfers within the cloud.

The preponderance of east-west traffic complicates security design. If each of these cascading transactions were to pass through a firewall or other security appliance, it would create a severe bottleneck. These requirements are driving the creation of virtualized security appliances that can monitor traffic as it passes between servers ([blogs.cisco.com/security/trends-in-data-center-security-part-1-traffic-trends](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/other-secure-network-design-considerations)).

**Zero Trust**  
**Zero trust** is based on the idea that perimeter security is unlikely to be completely robust. On a modern network, there are just too many opportunities for traffic to escape monitoring by perimeter devices and DMZs. Zero trust uses systems such as continuous authentication and conditional access to mitigate privilege escalation and account compromise by threat actors.

Another zero trust technique is to apply microsegmentation. Microsegmentation is a security process that is capable of applying policies to a single node, as though it was in a zone of its own. Like east-west traffic, this requires a new generation of virtualized security appliances to implement ([vmware.com/solutions/micro-segmentation.html](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/other-secure-network-design-considerations)).