# Man-in-the-Middle and Layer 2 Attacks

#### MAN-IN-THE-MIDDLE AND LAYER 2 ATTACKS

Attacks at the physical and data link layers, referred to in the OSI model as layer 1 and layer 2, are often focused on information gathering—**network mapping** and **eavesdropping** on network traffic.

**Man-in-the-Middle/On-Path Attacks**  
Attackers can also take advantage of the lack of security in low-level data link protocols to perform **man-in-the-middle (MitM) attacks**. A MitM or on-path attack is where the threat actor gains a position between two hosts, and transparently captures, monitors, and relays all communication between the hosts. An on-path attack could also be used to covertly modify the traffic. For example, a MitM host could present a workstation with a spoofed website form, to try to capture the user credential. Another common on-path attack spoofs responses to DNS queries, redirecting users to spoofed websites. On-path attacks can be defeated using mutual authentication, where both hosts exchange secure credentials, but at layer 2 it is not always possible to put these controls in place.

**MAC Cloning**  
**MAC cloning**, or MAC address spoofing, changes the hardware address configured on an adapter interface or asserts the use of an arbitrary MAC address. While a unique MAC address is assigned to each network interface by the vendor at the factory, it is simple to override it in software via OS commands, alterations to the network driver configuration, or using **packet crafting** software. This can lead to a variety of issues when investigating security incidents or when depending on MAC addresses as part of a security control, as the presented address of the device may not be reliable.