# Wireless Network Installation Considerations

#### WIRELESS NETWORK INSTALLATION CONSIDERATIONS

Wireless network installation considerations refer to the factors that ensure good availability of authorized Wi-Fi access points. A network with patchy coverage is vulnerable to rogue and evil twin attacks.

> _The 5 GHz band has more space to configure non-overlapping channels. Also note that a WAP can use bonded channels to improve bandwidth, but this increases risks from interference._

**Wireless Access Point (WAP) Placement**  
An infrastructure-based wireless network comprises one or more wireless access points, each connected to a wired network. The **access points** forward traffic to and from the wired switched network. Each WAP is identified by its MAC address, also referred to as its basic service set identifier (BSSID). Each wireless network is identified by its name, or **service set identifier (SSID)**.

Wireless networks can operate in either the 2.4 GHz or 5 GHz radio band. Each radio band is divided into a number of channels, and each WAP must be configured to use a specific channel. For performance reasons, the channels chosen should be as widely spaced as possible to reduce different types of interference:

-   Co-channel interference (CCI)—when two WAPs in close proximity use the same channel, they compete for bandwidth within that channel, as signals collide and have to be re-transmitted.
    
-   Adjacent channel interference (ACI)—channels have only ~5 MHz spacing, but Wi-Fi requires 20 MHz of channel space. When the channels selected for WAPs are not cleanly spaced, the interference pattern creates significant numbers of errors and loss of bandwidth. For example, if two access points within range of one another are configured in the 2.4 GHz band with channels 1 and 6, they will not overlap. If a third access point is added using channel 3, it will use part of the spectrum used by both the other WAPs, and all three networks will suffer from interference.
    

**Site Surveys and Heat Maps**  
The coverage and interference factors mean that WAPs must be positioned and configured so that the whole area is covered, but that they overlap as little as possible. A site survey is used to measure signal strength and channel usage throughout the area to cover. A **site survey** starts with an architectural map of the site, with features that can cause background interference marked. These features include solid walls, reflective surfaces, motors, microwave ovens, and so on. The survey is performed with a Wi-Fi-enabled laptop or mobile device with Wi-Fi analyzer software installed. The Wi-Fi analyzer records information about the signal obtained at regularly spaced points as the surveyor moves around the area.

These readings are combined and analyzed to produce a **heat map**, showing where a signal is strong (red) or weak (green/blue), and which channel is being used and how they overlap. This data is then used to optimize the design, by adjusting transmit power to reduce a WAP's range, changing the channel on a WAP, adding a new WAP, or physically moving a WAP to a new location.