# Wi-Fi Authentication Methods

#### WI-FI AUTHENTICATION METHODS

In order to secure a network, you need to be able to confirm that only valid users are connecting to it. Wi-Fi authentication comes in three types: personal, open, and enterprise. Within the personal category, there are two methods: pre-shared key authentication (PSK) and simultaneous authentication of equals (SAE).

**WPA2 Pre-Shared Key Authentication**  
In WPA2, **pre-shared key (PSK)** authentication uses a passphrase to generate the key that is used to encrypt communications. It is also referred to as group authentication because a group of users share the same secret. When the access point is set to WPA2-PSK mode, the administrator configures a passphrase of between 8 and 63 ASCII characters. This is converted to a 256-bit HMAC (expressed as a 64-character hex value) using the PBKDF2 key stretching algorithm. This HMAC is referred to as the pairwise master key (PMK). The same secret must be configured on the access point and on each node that joins the network. The PMK is used as part of WPA2's 4-way handshake to derive various session keys.

> _All types of Wi-Fi personal authentication have been shown to be vulnerable to attacks that allow dictionary or brute force attacks against the passphrase. At a minimum, the passphrase must be at least 14 characters long to try to mitigate risks from cracking._

**WPA3 Personal Authentication**  
While WPA3 still uses a passphrase to authenticate stations in personal mode, it changes the method by which this secret is used to agree session keys. The scheme used is also referred to as Password Authenticated Key Exchange (PAKE). In WPA3, the Simultaneous Authentication of Equals (SAE) protocol replaces the 4-way handshake, which has been found to be vulnerable to various attacks. SAE uses the Dragonfly handshake, which is basically Diffie-Helllman over elliptic curves key agreement, combined with a hash value derived from the password and device MAC address to authenticate the nodes. With SAE, there should be no way for an attacker to sniff the handshake to obtain the hash value and try to use an offline brute-force or dictionary attack to recover the password. Dragonfly also implements ephemeral session keys, providing forward secrecy.

> _The configuration interfaces for access points can use different labels for these methods. You might see WPA2-Personal and WPA3-SAE rather than WPA2-PSK and WPA3-Personal, for example. Additionally, an access point can be configured for WPA3 only or with support for legacy WPA2 (WPA3-Personal Transition mode). Researchers already found flaws in WPA3-Personal, one of which relies on a downgrade attack to use WPA2 (wi-fi.org/security-update-april-2019)._