# Wi-Fi Protected Setup

#### WI-FI PROTECTED SETUP

As setting up an access point securely is relatively complex for residential consumers, vendors have developed a system to automate the process called **Wi-Fi Protected Setup (WPS)**. To use WPS, both the access point and wireless station (client device) must be WPS-capable. Typically, the devices will have a pushbutton. Activating this on the access point and the adapter simultaneously will associate the devices using a PIN, then associate the adapter with the access point using WPA2. The system generates a random SSID and PSK. If the devices do not support the push button method, the PIN (printed on the WAP) can be entered manually.

Unfortunately, WPS is vulnerable to a brute force attack. While the PIN is eight characters, one digit is a checksum and the rest are verified as two separate PINs of four and three characters. These separate PINs are many orders of magnitude simpler to brute force, typically requiring just hours to crack. On some models, disabling WPS through the admin interface does not actually disable the protocol, or there is no option to disable it. Some APs can lock out an intruder if a brute force attack is detected, but in some cases the attack can just be resumed when the lockout period expires. To counter this, the lockout period can be increased. However, this can leave APs vulnerable to a denial of service (DoS) attack. When provisioning a WAP, it is essential to verify what steps the vendor has taken to make their WPS implementation secure and the firmware level required to assure security.

The Easy Connect method, announced alongside WPA3, is intended to replace WPS as a method of securely configuring client devices with the information required to access a Wi-Fi network. Easy Connect is a brand name for the Device Provisioning Protocol (DPP). Each participating device must be configured with a public/private key pair. Easy Connect uses quick response (QR) codes or nearfield communication (NFC) tags to communicate each device's public key. A smartphone is registered as an Easy Connect configurator app, and associated with the WAP using its QR code. Each client device can then be associated by scanning its QR code or NFC tag in the configurator app. As well as fixing the security problems associated with WPS, this is a straightforward means of configuring headless Internet of Things (IoT) devices with Wi-Fi connectivity.

> _A quick response (QR) code is a barcode standard for encoding arbitrary alphanumeric or binary strings within a square block pattern. The codes can be scanned using any type of digital camera._