# Open Authentication and Captive Portals

#### OPEN AUTHENTICATION AND CAPTIVE PORTALS

Selecting open authentication means that the client is not required to authenticate. This mode would be used on a public WAP (or "hotspot"). In WPA2, this also means that data sent over the link is unencrypted. Open authentication may be combined with a secondary authentication mechanism managed via a browser. When the client associates with the open hotspot and launches the browser, the client is redirected to a **captive portal** or splash page. This will allow the client to authenticate to the hotspot provider's network (over HTTPS, so the login is secure). The portal may also be designed to enforce terms and conditions and/or take payment to access the Wi-Fi service.

When using open wireless, users must ensure they send confidential web data only over HTTPS connections and only use email, VoIP, IM, and file transfer services with SSL/TLS enabled. Another option is for the user to join a Virtual Private Network (VPN). The user would associate with the open hotspot then start the VPN connection. This creates an encrypted "tunnel" between the user's computer and the VPN server. This allows the user to browse the web or connect to email services without anyone eavesdropping on the open Wi-Fi network being able to intercept those communications. The VPN could be provided by the user's company or they could use a third-party VPN service provider. Of course, if using a third party, the user needs to be able to trust them implicitly. The VPN must use certificate-based tunneling to set up the "inner" authentication method.

WPA3 can implement a mode called Wi-Fi Enhanced Open, which uses opportunistic wireless encryption (OWE). OWE uses the Dragonfly handshake to agree with ephemeral session keys on joining the network. This means that one station cannot sniff the traffic from another station, because they are using different session keys. There is still no authentication of the access point, however.