# Amplification, Application, and OT Attacks

#### AMPLIFICATION, APPLICATION, AND OT ATTACKS

In a distributed reflection DoS (DRDoS) or amplification SYN flood attack, the threat actor spoofs the victim's IP address and attempts to open connections with multiple servers. Those servers direct their SYN/ACK responses to the victim server. This rapidly consumes the victim's available bandwidth.

**Application Attacks**  
Where a network attack uses low-level techniques, such as SYN or SYN/ACK flooding, an application attack targets vulnerabilities in the headers and payloads of specific application protocols. For example, one type of **amplification attack** targets DNS services with bogus queries. One of the advantages of this technique is that while the request is small, the response to a DNS query can be made to include a lot of information, so this is a very effective way of overwhelming the bandwidth of the victim network with much more limited resources on the attacker's botnet.

The **Network Time Protocol (NTP)** can be abused in a similar way. NTP helps servers on a network and on the Internet to keep the correct time. It is vital for many protocols and security mechanisms that servers and clients be synchronized. One NTP query (monlist) can be used to generate a response containing a list of the last 600 machines that the NTP server has contacted. As with the DNS amplification attack, this allows a short request to direct a long response at the victim network.

**Operational Technology (OT) Attacks**  
An **operational technology (OT)** network is established between embedded systems devices and their controllers. The term "operational" is used because these system monitor and control physical electromechanical components, such as valves, motors, electrical switches, gauges, and sensors. DDoS attacks against the controllers in such networks can use the same techniques as against computer networks. Also, because of the limited processing ability of some controller types, older DDoS techniques, such as Smurf ([cloudflare.com/learning/ddos/smurf-ddos-attack](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/amplification-application-and-ot-attacks)) or Ping of Death ([imperva.com/learn/application-security/ping-of-death](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/amplification-application-and-ot-attacks)), can continue to be effective against embedded systems. The limited resources of these devices mean that DDoS can rapidly overwhelm available memory or CPU time.

> _As well as being the target of an attack, embedded systems might be used as bots. Any type of Internet-enabled device is vulnerable to compromise. This includes web-enabled cameras, SOHO routers, and smart TVs and other appliances. This is referred to as an Internet of Things (IoT) botnet._