# Stream and Block Ciphers

#### STREAM AND BLOCK CIPHERS

There are two types of symmetric encryption: stream ciphers and block ciphers.

**Stream Ciphers**  
In a **stream cipher**, each byte or bit of data in the plaintext is encrypted one at a time. This is suitable for encrypting communications where the total length of the message is not known. The plaintext is combined with a separate randomly generated message, calculated from the key and an initialization vector (IV). The IV ensures the key produces a unique ciphertext from the same plaintext. The keystream must be unique, so an IV must not be reused with the same key. The recipient must be able to generate the same keystream as the sender and the streams must be synchronized. Stream ciphers might use markers to allow for synchronization and retransmission. Some types of stream ciphers are made self-synchronizing.

**Block Ciphers**  
In a **block cipher**, the plaintext is divided into equal-size blocks (usually 128-bit). If there is not enough data in the plaintext, it is padded to the correct size using some string defined in the algorithm. For example, a 1200-bit plaintext would be padded with an extra 80 bits to fit into 10 x 128-bit blocks. Each block is then subjected to complex transposition and substitution operations, based on the value of the key used.

The **Advanced Encryption Standard (AES)** is the default symmetric encryption cipher for most products. Basic AES has a key size of 128 bits, but the most widely used variant is AES256, with a 256-bit key.

**Key Length**  
The range of key values available to use with a particular cipher is called the keyspace. The keyspace is roughly equivalent to two to the power of the size of the key. Using a longer key (256 bits rather than 128 bits, for instance) makes the encryption scheme stronger. You should realize that key lengths are not equivalent when comparing different algorithms, however. Recommendations on minimum key length for any given algorithm are made by identifying whether the algorithm is vulnerable to cryptanalysis techniques and by the length of time it would take to "brute force" the key, given current processing resources.