# Authenticated Modes of Operation

#### AUTHENTICATED MODES OF OPERATION

Symmetric algorithms do not provide message integrity or authentication. The basic CBC and counter modes of operation are unauthenticated. While a man-in-the-middle cannot decrypt them directly without the secret key, the ciphertexts are vulnerable to arbitrary data being inserted or modified to break the encryption scheme, referred to as a _chosen ciphertext attack._

**Authenticated Encryption**  
A **message authentication code (MAC)** provides an authentication and integrity mechanism by hashing a combination of the message output and a shared secret key. The recipient can perform the same process using his or her copy of the secret key to verify the data. This type of authenticated encryption scheme is specified in a cipher suite as separate functions, such as "AES CBC with HMAC-SHA." Unfortunately, the implementation of this type of authenticated mode in AES CBC is vulnerable to a type of cryptographic attack called a padding oracle attack ([document microsoft](docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/security/vulnerabilities-cbc-mode)).

**Authenticated Encryption with Additional Data (AEAD)**  
The weaknesses of CBC arising from the padding mechanism means that stream ciphers or counter modes are strongly preferred. These use Authenticated Encryption with Additional Data (AEAD) modes of operation. In an AEAD scheme, the associated data allows the receiver to use the message header to ensure the payload has not been replayed from a different communication stream.

An AEAD mode is identified by a single hyphenated function name, such as AES-GCM or AES-CCM. The ChaCha20-Poly1305 stream cipher has been developed as an alternative to AES.

