# Cryptography Supporting Integrity and Resiliency

#### CRYPTOGRAPHY SUPPORTING INTEGRITY AND RESILIENCY

Integrity is proved by hashing algorithms, which allow two parties to derive the same checksum and show that a message or data has not been tampered with. A basic hash function can also be used with a shared secret to create a **message authentication code (MAC)**, which prevents a man-in-the-middle tampering with the checksum.

As well as providing integrity at the level of individual messages, cryptography can be used to design highly resilient control systems. A control system is one with multiple parts, such as sensors, workstations, and servers, and complex operating logic. Such a system is resilient if compromise of a small part of the system is prevented from allowing compromise of the whole system. Cryptography assists this goal by ensuring the authentication and integrity of messages delivered over the control system.

Integrity and resiliency are also an issue for computer code. If a threat actor has administrator privileges, they can change the operation of legitimate code to make it work as malware. A developer can make tampering more difficult using obfuscation. **Obfuscation** is the art of making a message difficult to understand. Obfuscated source code is rewritten in a way that does not affect the way the computer compiles or executes the code, but makes it difficult for a person reading the code to understand how it works.

Cryptography is a very effective way of obfuscating a message, but unfortunately, it is too effective in the case of source code because it also means the code cannot be understood (executed) by the computer. At some point, the code must be decrypted to be executed. The key used for decryption usually needs to be bundled with the source code, and this means that you are relying on security by obscurity rather than strong cryptography. Attempts to protect an embedded key while preserving the functionality of the code—known as _white box cryptography_—have all been broken. There are no commercial solutions currently available to overcome this problem, but the subject is one of much research interest.