# Cryptographic Performance Limitations

#### CRYPTOGRAPHIC PERFORMANCE LIMITATIONS

Differences between ciphers make them more or less useful for resource-constrained environments. The main performance factors are as follows:

-   Speed—for symmetric ciphers and hash functions, _speed_ is the amount of data per second that can be processed. Asymmetric ciphers are measured by operations per second. Speed has the most impact when large amounts of data are processed.
    
-   Time/latency—for some use cases, the time required to obtain a result is more important than a data rate. For example, when a secure protocol depends on ciphers in the handshake phase, no data transport can take place until the handshake is complete. This latency, measured in milliseconds, can be critical to performance.
    
-   Size—the security of a cipher is strongly related to the size of the key, with longer keys providing better security. Note that the key size cannot be used to make comparisons between algorithms. For example, a 256-bit ECC key is stronger than a 2048-bit RSA key. Larger keys will increase the computational overhead for each operation, reducing speed and increasing latency.
    
-   Computational overheads—in addition to key size selection, different ciphers have unique performance characteristics. Some ciphers require more CPU and memory resources than others, and are less suited to use in a resource-constrained environment.
    

In selecting a product or individual cipher for a particular use case, a tradeoff must be achieved between the demand for the best security available and the resources available for implementation.

-   Low power devices—some technologies or ciphers configured with longer keys require more processing cycles and memory space. This makes them slower and means they consume more power. Consequently, some algorithms and key strengths are unsuitable for handheld devices and embedded systems, especially those that work on battery power. Another example is a contactless smart card, where the card only receives power from the reader and has fairly limited storage capacity, which affects the maximum key size supported.
    
-   Low latency uses—this can impact protocol handshake setup times. A longer handshake will manifest as delay for the user, and could cause timeout issues with some applications. Also, if cryptography is deployed with a real time-sensitive channel, such as voice or video, the processing overhead on both the transmitter and receiver must be low enough not to impact the quality of the signal.