# Longevity and Cryptographic Attacks

#### LONGEVITY AND CRYPTOGRAPHIC ATTACKS

Use of weak cipher suites and implementations can represent a critical vulnerability for an organization. It means that data that it is storing and processing may not be secure. It may also allow a malicious attacker to masquerade as it by creating spoofed digital certificates, causing huge reputational damage.

Weaknesses in certain ciphers make some unsafe to use and some that are considered likely to be unsafe in the near-term or medium-term future. In one sense, _longevity_ is a measure of the confidence that people have in a given cipher. Cryptanalysis is undertaken on encryption systems with the purpose of trying to detect weaknesses. However, if weaknesses discovered in a particular cipher or the implementation of a cipher under research conditions lead to the deprecation of that algorithm, that does not necessarily mean that the system is immediately vulnerable in practice.

RC4 and DES/3DES are already deprecated. RSA is seen as approaching the end of its usefulness, with ECC and other algorithms offering better security and performance characteristics ([thesslstore.com](thesslstore.com/blog/is-it-still-safe-to-use-rsa-encryption)). MD5 and SHA-1 have known weaknesses, but are not necessarily unsecure if compatibility is an overriding concern.

In another sense, _longevity_ is the consideration of how long data must be kept secure. If you assume that a ciphertext will be exposed at some point, how long must that ciphertext resist cryptanalysis? For example, imagine an NSA operative's laptop is stolen. The thief cannot hope to break the encryption with current computing resources, but how long must that encryption mechanism continue to protect the data? If advances in cryptanalysis will put it at risk within 5 years, or 10 years, or 20 years, could a more secure algorithm have been chosen? There is always a tradeoff among security, cost, and interoperability. Malicious mathematical attacks are difficult to launch, and the chances of success against up-to-date, proven technologies and standards are remote. If a deprecated algorithm is in use, there is no need for panic, but there will be a need for a plan to closely monitor the affected systems and to transition to better technologies as quickly as is practical.

