# Key Stretching and Salting

#### KEY STRETCHING AND SALTING

Entropy is a concern whenever a cryptographic system makes use of user-generated data, such as a password. Users tend to select low entropy passwords, because they are easier to remember. A couple of technologies try to compensate for this.

**Key Stretching**  
**Key stretching** takes a key that's generated from a user password and repeatedly converts it to a longer and more random key. The initial key may be put through thousands of rounds of hashing. This might not be difficult for the attacker to replicate so it doesn't actually make the key stronger, but it slows the attack down, as the attacker has to do all this extra processing for each possible key value. Key stretching can be performed by using a particular software library to hash and save passwords when they are created. The **Password-Based Key Derivation Function 2 (PBKDF2)** is very widely used for this purpose, notably as part of Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA).

**Salting**  
Passwords stored as hashes are vulnerable to brute force and dictionary attacks. A password hash cannot be decrypted; hash functions are one-way. However, an attacker can generate hashes to try to find a match for password hash captured from network traffic or password file. A brute force attack simply runs through every possible combination of letters, numbers, and symbols. A dictionary attack creates hashes of common words and phrases.

Both these attacks can be slowed down by adding a salt value when creating the hash, so you compute:

`(salt + password) * SHA = hash`

The salt is not kept secret, because any system verifying the hash must know the value of the salt. It simply means that an attacker cannot use pre-computed tables of hashes. The hash values must be recompiled with the specific salt value for each password.