# Quantum and Post-quantum

#### QUANTUM AND POST-QUANTUM

_Quantum_ refers to computers that use properties of quantum mechanics to significantly out-perform classical computers at certain tasks.

**Computing**  
A quantum computer performs processing on units called _qubits_ (quantum bits). A qubit can be set to 0 or 1 or an indeterminate state called a _superposition_, where there is a probability of it being either 1 or 0. The likelihood can be balanced 50/50 or can be weighted either way. The power of quantum computing comes from the fact that qubits can be entangled. When the value of a qubit is read, it collapses to either 1 or 0, and all other entangled qubits collapse at the same time. The strength of this architecture is that a single operation can utilize huge numbers of state variables represented as qubits, while a classical computer's CPU must go through a read, execute, write cycle for each bit of memory. This makes quantum very well-suited to solving certain tasks, two of which are the factoring problem that underpins RSA encryption and the discrete logarithm problem that underpins ECC.

**Communications**  
While quantum computing could put the strength of current cryptographic ciphers at risk, it also has the promise of underpinning more secure cryptosystems. The properties of entanglement, superposition, and collapse suit the design of a tamper-evident communication system that would allow secure key agreement.

**Post-Quantum**  
**Post-quantum** refers to the expected state of computing when quantum computers that can perform useful tasks are a reality. Currently, the physical properties of qubits and entanglement make quantum computers very hard to scale up. At the time of writing, the most powerful quantum computers have about 50 qubits. A quantum computer will need about a million qubits to run useful applications.

No one can predict with certainty if or when such a computer will be implemented. In the meantime, NIST is running a project to develop cryptographic ciphers that are resistant to cracking even by quantum computers ([csrc.nist.gov/Projects/Post-Quantum-Cryptography](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/quantum-and-post-quantum)).

More generally, _cryptographic agility_ refers to an organization's ability to update the specific algorithms used across a range of security products without affecting the business workflows that those products support ([cryptosense.com/blog/achieving-crypto-agility](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/quantum-and-post-quantum)).

**Lightweight Cryptography**  
Another problem affecting current cryptographic ciphers is use on low-power devices. NIST is hoping that a compact cipher suite will be be developed that is both quantum resistant and that can run on battery-powered devices with minimal CPU and memory resources ([csrc.nist.gov/projects/lightweight-cryptography](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/quantum-and-post-quantum)).