# Homomorphic Encryption

#### HOMOMORPHIC ENCRYPTION

**Homomorphic encryption** is principally used to share privacy-sensitive data sets. When a company collects private data, it is responsible for keeping the data secure and respecting the privacy rights of individual data subjects. Companies often want to use third parties to perform analysis, however. Sharing unencrypted data in this scenario is a significant risk. Homomorphic encryption is a solution for this use case because it allows the receiving company to perform statistical calculations on fields within the data while keeping the data set as a whole encrypted. For example, if you want to perform analytics on customer interactions, an analysis tool will be able to sum logons without any account identifiers like email addresses ever being decrypted.

#### BLOCKCHAIN

**Blockchain** is a concept in which an expanding list of transactional records is secured using cryptography. Each record is referred to as a _block_ and is run through a hash function. The hash value of the previous block in the chain is added to the hash calculation of the next block in the chain. This ensures that each successive block is cryptographically linked. Each block validates the hash of the previous block, all the way through to the beginning of the chain, ensuring that each historical transaction has not been tampered with. In addition, each block typically includes a timestamp of one or more transactions, as well as the data involved in the transactions themselves.

The blockchain is recorded in a public ledger. This ledger does not exist as an individual file on a single computer; rather, one of the most important characteristics of a blockchain is that it is decentralized. The ledger is distributed across a peer-to-peer (P2P) network in order to mitigate the risks associated with having a single point of failure or compromise. Blockchain users can therefore trust each other equally. Likewise, another defining quality of a blockchain is its openness—everyone has the same ability to view every transaction on a blockchain.

Blockchain technology has a variety of potential applications. It can ensure the integrity and transparency of financial transactions, online voting systems, identity management systems, notarization, data storage, and more. However, blockchain is still an emerging technology, and outside of cryptocurrencies, has not yet been adopted on a wide-ranging scale.