# Steganography

#### STEGANOGRAPHY

Steganography (literally meaning "hidden writing") is a technique for obscuring the presence of a message. Typically, information is embedded where you would not expect to find it; a message hidden in a picture, for instance. The container document or file is called the _covertext_. A _steganography_ tool is software that either facilitates this or conversely that can be used to detect the presence of a hidden message within a covertext.

When used to conceal information, steganography amounts to "security by obscurity," which is usually deprecated. However, a message can be encrypted by some mechanism before embedding it, providing confidentiality. The technology can also provide integrity or non-repudiation; for example, it could show that something was printed on a particular device at a particular time, which could demonstrate that it was genuine or a fake, depending on context.

One example of steganography is to encode messages within TCP packet data fields to create a covert message channel. Another approach is to change the least significant bit of pixels in an image file. This can code a useful amount of information without distorting the original image noticeably. Similar techniques can be used with other media types as cover files, such as audio and video files.

These methods might be used for command and control or to exfiltrate data covertly, bypassing protection mechanisms such as data loss prevention (DLP) ([blog.trendmicro.com/trendlabs-security-intelligence/steganography-and-malware-concealing-code-and-cc-traffic/](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/steganography)). Future developments may see use of steganography in streaming media or voiceover IP (VoIP).