# VM SPRAWL AVOIDANCE

#### VM SPRAWL AVOIDANCE

As well as securing the hypervisor, you must also treat each VM as you would any other network host. This means using security policies and controls to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of all data and services relying on host virtualization.

Each VM needs to be installed with its own security software suite to protect against malware and intrusion attempts. Each guest must also have a patch management process. This might mean installing updates locally or replacing the guest instance from an updated VM template image.

> _Ordinary antivirus software installed on the host will NOT detect viruses infecting the guest OS. Scanning the virtual disks of guest OSes from the host will cause serious performance problems._

Although one of the primary benefits of virtualization is the ease of deploying new systems, this type of system sprawl and deployment of undocumented assets can also be the root of security issues. It will often be the case that a system will be brought up for "just a minute" to test something, but languish for months or years, undocumented, unsecured, and unpatched. Each of these undocumented systems could represent an exploitable vulnerability. They increase the potential attack surface of the network. Policies and procedures for tracking, securing, and, when no longer used, destroying virtualized assets should be put in place and carefully enforced.

Virtual machine life cycle management (VMLM) software can be deployed to enforce **VM sprawl** avoidance. VMLM solutions provide you with a centralized dashboard for maintaining and monitoring all the virtual environments in your organization. More generally, the management procedures for developing and deploying machine images need to be tightly drafted and monitored. VMs should conform to an application-specific template with the minimum configuration needed to run that application (that is, not running unnecessary services). Images should not be run in any sort of environment where they could be infected by malware or have any sort of malicious code inserted. One of the biggest concerns here is of rogue developers or contractors installing backdoors or "logic bombs" within a machine image. The problem of criminal or disgruntled staff is obviously one that affects any sort of security environment, but concealing code within VM machine images is a bit easier to accomplish and has the potential to be much more destructive.