# CLOUD NETWORKING SECURITY

#### CLOUD NETWORKING SECURITY

Within the cloud, the CSP establishes a virtualization layer that abstracts the underlying physical network. This allows the CSP to operate a public cloud where the networking performed by each customer account is isolated from the others. In terms of customer-configured cloud networking, there are various contexts:

  
-   Networks by which the cloud consumer operates and manages the cloud systems.
  
-   Virtual networks established between VMs and containers within the cloud.
  
-   Virtual networks by which cloud services are published to guests or customers on the Internet.
  

**Virtual Private Clouds (VPCs)**  
Each customer can create one or more **virtual private clouds (VPCs)** attached to their account. By default, a VPC is isolated from other CSP accounts and from other VPCs operating in the same account. This means that customer A cannot view traffic passing over customer B's VPC. The workload for each VPC is isolated from other VPCs. Within the VPC, the cloud consumer can assign an IPv4 CIDR block and configure one or more subnets within that block. Optionally, an IPv6 CIDR block can be assigned also.

> _The following notes focus on features of networking in AWS. Other vendors support similar functionality, though sometimes with different terminology. For example, in Microsoft Azure, VPCs are referred to as virtual networks._

**Public and Private Subnets**  
Each subnet within a VPC can either be private or public. To configure a public subnet, first an Internet gateway (virtual router) must be attached to the VPC configuration. Secondly, the Internet gateway must be configured as the default route for each public subnet. If a default route is not configured, the subnet remains private, even if an Internet gateway is attached to the VPC. Each instance in the subnet must also be configured with a public IP in its cloud profile. The Internet gateway performs 1:1 network address translation (NAT) to route Internet communications to and from the instance.

> _The instance network adapter is not configured with this public IP address. The instance's NIC is configured with an IP address for the subnet. The public address is used by the virtualization management layer only. Public IP addresses can be assigned from your own pool or from a CSP-managed service, such as Amazon's Elastic IP (docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/elastic-ip-addresses-eip.html)._

There are other ways to provision external connectivity for a subnet if it is not appropriate to make it public:

  
-   NAT gateway—this feature allows an instance to connect out to the Internet or to other AWS services, but does not allow connections initiated from the Internet.
  
-   VPN—there are various options for establishing connections to and between VPCs using virtual private networks (VPNs) at the software layer or using CSP-managed features.