# SERVICES INTEGRATION AND MICROSERVICES

#### SERVICES INTEGRATION AND MICROSERVICES

In the early days of computer networks, architecture was focused on the provision of server machines and intermediate network systems (switches and routers). Architectural choices centered around where to place a "box" to run monolithic network applications such as routing, security, address allocation, name resolution, file sharing, email, and so on. With virtualization, the provision of these applications is much less dependent on where you put the box and the OS that the box runs. Virtualization helps to make the design architecture fit to the business requirement rather than accommodate the business workflow to the platform requirement.

**Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA)**  
**Service-oriented architecture (SOA)** conceives of atomic services closely mapped to business workflows. Each service takes defined inputs and produces defined outputs. The service may itself be composed of sub-services. The key features of a service function are that it is self-contained, does not rely on the state of other services, and exposes clear input/output (I/O) interfaces. Because each service has a simple interface, interoperability is made much easier than with a complex monolithic application. The implementation of a service does not constrain compatibility choices for client services, which can use a different platform or development language. This independence of the service and the client requesting the service is referred to as loose coupling.

**Microservices**  
**Microservice**\-based development shares many similarities with Agile software project management and the processes of continuous delivery and deployment. It also shares roots with the Unix philosophy that each program or tool should do one thing well. The main difference between SOA and microservices is that SOA allows a service to be built from other services. By contrast, each microservice should be capable of being developed, tested, and deployed independently. The microservices are said to be highly decoupled rather than just loosely decoupled.

**Services Integration and Orchestration**  
Services integration refers to ways of making these decoupled service or microservice components work together to perform a workflow. Where SOA used the concept of a enterprise service bus, microservices integration and cloud services/virtualization/automation integration generally is very often implemented using orchestration tools. Where automation focuses on making a single, discrete task easily repeatable, **orchestration** performs a sequence of automated tasks. For example, you might orchestrate adding a new VM to a load-balanced cluster. This end-to-end process might include provisioning the VM, configuring it, adding the new VM to the load-balanced cluster, and reconfiguring the load-balancing weight distribution given the new cluster configuration. In doing this, the orchestrated steps would have to run numerous automated scripts or API service calls.

For orchestration to work properly, automated steps must occur in the right sequence, taking dependencies into account; it must provide the right security credentials at every step along the way; and it must have the rights and permissions to perform the defined tasks. Orchestration can automate processes that are complex, requiring dozens or hundreds of manual steps.

Cloud orchestration platforms connect to and provide administration, management, and orchestration for many popular cloud platforms and services. One of the advantages of using a third-party orchestration platform is protection from vendor lock in. If you wish to migrate from one cloud provider to another, or wish to move to a multi-cloud environment, automated workflows can often be adapted for use on new platforms. Industry leaders in this space include Chef (chef.io), Puppet (puppet.com), Ansible (ansible.com), and Kubernetes (kubernetes.io).