# COMMUNICATION PLAN AND STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT

#### COMMUNICATION PLAN AND STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT

Incident response policies should establish clear lines of communication, both for reporting incidents and for notifying affected parties as the management of an incident progresses. It is vital to have essential contact information readily available.

You must prevent the inadvertent release of information beyond the team authorized to handle the incident. Status and event details should be circulated on a need-to-know basis and only to trusted parties identified on a **call list**.

**Communication Plan**  
Secure communication between the trusted parties of the CIRT is essential for managing incidents successfully. It is imperative that adversaries not be alerted to detection and remediation measures about to be taken against them. It may not be appropriate for all members of the CSIRT to be informed about all incident details.

The team requires an "out-of-band" or "off-band" communication method that cannot be intercepted. Using corporate email or VoIP runs the risk that the adversary will be able to intercept communications. One obvious method is cell phones but these only support voice and text messaging. For file and data exchange, there should be a messaging system with end-to-end encryption, such as Off-the-Record (OTR), Signal, or WhatsApp, or an external email system with message encryption (S/MIME or PGP). These need to use digital signatures and encryption keys from a system that is completely separate from the identity management processes of the network being defended.

**Stakeholder Management**  
Trusted parties might include both internal and external stakeholders. It is not helpful for an incident to be publicized in the press or through social media outside of planned communications. Ensure that parties with privileged information do not release this information to untrusted parties, whether intentionally or inadvertently.

You need to consider obligations to report the attack. It may be necessary to inform affected parties during or immediately after the incident so that they can perform their own remediation. It may be necessary to report to regulators or law enforcement. You also need to consider the marketing and PR impact of an incident. This can be highly damaging and you will need to demonstrate to customers that security systems have been improved.