# INCIDENT RESPONSE PLAN

#### INCIDENT RESPONSE PLAN

An **incident response plan (IRP)** lists the procedures, contacts, and resources available to responders for various incident categories. The CSIRT should develop profiles or scenarios of typical incidents (DDoS attack, virus/worm outbreak, data exfiltration by an external adversary, data modification by an internal adversary, and so on). This will guide investigators in determining priorities and remediation plans. A **playbook** (or runbook) is a data-driven standard operating procedure (SOP) to assist junior analysts in detecting and responding to specific cyberthreat scenarios, such as phishing attempts, SQL injection data exfiltration, connection to a block-listed IP range, and so on. The playbook starts with a SIEM report and query designed to detect the incident and identify the key detection, containment, and eradication steps to take.

Incident categories and definitions ensure that all response team members and other organizational personnel all have a common base of understanding of the meaning of terms, concepts, and descriptions. The categories, types, and definitions might vary according to industry. For a listing of the US federal agency incident categories, you can visit us-cert.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/publications/Federal\_Incident\_Notification\_Guidelines.pdf.

One challenge in incident management is to allocate resources efficiently. This means that identified incidents must be assessed for severity and prioritized for remediation. There are several factors that can affect this process:

-   Data integrity—the most important factor in prioritizing incidents will often be the value of data that is at risk.
  
-   Downtime—another very important factor is the degree to which an incident disrupts business processes. An incident can either degrade (reduce performance) or interrupt (completely stop) the availability of an asset, system, or business process. If you have completed an asset inventory and a thorough risk assessment of business processes (showing how assets and computer systems assist each process), then you can easily identify critical processes and quantify the impact of an incident in terms of the cost of downtime.
  
-   Economic/publicity—both data integrity and downtime will have important economic effects, both in the short term and the long term. Short-term costs involve incident response itself and lost business opportunities. Long-term economic costs may involve damage to reputation and market standing.
  
-   Scope—the scope of an incident (broadly the number of systems affected) is not a direct indicator of priority. A large number of systems might be infected with a type of malware that degrades performance, but is not a data breach risk. This might even be a masking attack as the adversary seeks to compromise data on a single database server storing top secret information.
  
-   Detection time—research has shown that the existence of more than half of data breaches are not detected for weeks or months after the intrusion occurs, while in a successful intrusion data is typically breached within minutes. This demonstrates that the systems used to search for intrusions must be thorough and the response to detection must be fast.
  
-   Recovery time—some incidents require lengthy remediation as the system changes required are complex to implement. This extended recovery period should trigger heightened alertness for continued or new attacks.