# SECURITY AND INFORMATION EVENT MANAGEMENT

#### SECURITY AND INFORMATION EVENT MANAGEMENT

Coupled with an attack framework, notification will provide a general sense of where to look for or expect indicators of malicious activity. Incident analysis is greatly facilitated by a security information and event management (SIEM) system. A SIEM parses network traffic and log data from multiple sensors, appliances, and hosts and normalizes the information to standard field types.

**Correlation**  
The SIEM can then run correlation rules on indicators extracted from the data sources to detect events that should be investigated as potential incidents. You can also filter or query the data based on the type of incident that has been reported.

**Correlation** means interpreting the relationship between individual data points to diagnose incidents of significance to the security team. A SIEM correlation rule is a statement that matches certain conditions. These rules use logical expressions, such as AND and OR, and operators, such as == (matches), `<` (less than), `>` (greater than), and `in` (contains). For example, a single-user logon failure is not a condition that should raise an alert. Multiple user logon failures for the same account, taking place within the space of one hour, is more likely to require investigation and is a candidate for detection by a correlation rule.

```Shell
Error.LogonFailure > 3 AND LogonFailure.User AND Duration < 1 hour
``` 

As well as correlation between indicators observed on the network, a SIEM is likely to be configured with a threat intelligence feed. This means that data points observed on the network can be associated with known threat actor indicators, such as IP addresses and domain names. AI-assisted analysis enables more sophisticated alerting and detection of anomalous behavior.

**Retention**  
A SIEM can enact a retention policy so that historical log and network traffic data is kept for a defined period. This allows for retrospective incident and threat hunting, and can be a valuable source of forensic evidence.