# INCIDENT ERADICATION AND RECOVERY

#### INCIDENT ERADICATION AND RECOVERY

After an incident has been contained, you can apply mitigation techniques and controls to eradicate the intrusion tools and unauthorized configuration changes from your systems. Eradicating malware, backdoors, and compromised accounts from individual hosts is not the last step in incident response. You should also consider a recovery phase where the goal is restoration of capabilities and services. This means that hosts are fully reconfigured to operate the business workflow they were performing before the incident. An essential part of recovery is the process of ensuring that the system cannot be compromised through the same attack vector (or failing that, that the vector is closely monitored to provide advance warning of another attack).

Eradication of malware or other intrusion mechanisms and recovery from the attack will involve several steps:

> _If reinstalling from baseline template configurations or images, make sure that there is nothing in the baseline that allowed the incident to occur! If so, update the template before rolling it out again._
> 
> _If your organization is subjected to a targeted attack, be aware that one incident may be very quickly followed by another._

1.  Reconstitution of affected systems—either remove the malicious files or tools from affected systems or restore the systems from secure backups/images.
    
2.  Reaudit security controls—ensure they are not vulnerable to another attack. This could be the same attack or from some new attack that the attacker could launch through information they have gained about your network.
    
3.  Ensure that affected parties are notified and provided with the means to remediate their own systems. For example, if customers' passwords are stolen, they should be advised to change the credentials for any other accounts where that password might have been used (not good practice, but most people do it).