# FIREWALL CONFIGURATION CHANGES

#### FIREWALL CONFIGURATION CHANGES

Analysis of an attack should identify the vector exploited by the attacker. This analysis is used to identify configuration changes that block that attack vector. A configuration change may mean the deployment of a new type of security control, or altering the settings of an existing control to make it more effective.

Historically, many organizations focused on ingress filtering rules, designed to prevent local network penetration from the Internet. In the current threat landscape, it is imperative to also apply strict egress filtering rules to prevent malware that has infected internal hosts by other means from communicating out to C&C servers. Egress filtering can be problematic in terms of interrupting authorized network activity, but it is an essential component of modern network defense. Some general guidelines for configuring egress filtering are:

-   Allow only authorized application ports and, if possible, restrict the destination addresses to authorized Internet hosts. Where authorized hosts cannot be identified or a default deny is too restrictive, use URL and content filtering to try to detect malicious traffic over authorized protocols.
  
-   Restrict DNS lookups to your own or your ISP's DNS services or authorized public resolvers, such as Google's or Quad9's DNS services.
  
-   Block access to "known bad" IP address ranges, as listed on don't route or peer (DROP) filter lists.
  
-   Block access from any IP address space that is not authorized for use on your local network.
  
-   Block all Internet access from host subnets that do not need to connect to the Internet, such as most types of internal server, workstations used to manage industrial control systems (ICSs), and so on.
  

Even within these rules, there is a lot of scope for threat actors to perform command signaling and exfiltration. For example, cloud services, such as content delivery networks and social media platforms, can be used to communicate scripts and malware commands and to exfiltrate data over HTTPS (rhinosecuritylabs.com/aws/hiding-cloudcobalt-strike-beacon-c2-using-amazon-apis).