# CONTENT FILTER CONFIGURATION CHANGES

#### CONTENT FILTER CONFIGURATION CHANGES

The limitations of a basic packet filtering firewall (even if it is stateful) mean that some sort of content filtering application proxy may provide better security. These types of appliances are usually referred to as secure web gateways (SWGs). A SWG mediates user access to Internet services, with the ability to block content from regularly updated URL/domain/IP block lists and perform intrusion detection/prevention on traffic based on matching content in application layer protocol headers and payloads.

If a SWG is already in place, an attacker may have found a way to circumvent it via some sort of backdoor. The network configuration should be checked and updated to ensure that all client access to the Internet must pass through the SWG. Another possibility is that the attacker is using a protocol or C&C method that is not filtered. The SWG should be updated with scripts and data, domains and IP addresses, that will block the exploit.

**Data Loss Prevention (DLP)**  
Data loss prevention (DLP) performs a similar function, but instead of user access it mediates the copying of tagged data to restrict it to authorized media and services. An attack may reveal the necessity of investing in DLP as a security control if one is not already implemented. If DLP is enabled and configured in the correct way to enforce policy, the attacker may have been able to circumvent it using a backdoor method that the DLP software cannot scan. Alternatively, the attacker may have been able to disguise the data so that it was not recognized.

**Mobile Device Management (MDM)**  
Mobile Device Management (MDM) provides execution control over apps and features of smartphones. Features include GPS, camera, and microphone. As with DLP, an intrusion might reveal a vector that allowed the threat actor to circumvent enrollment or a misconfiguration in the MDM's policy templates.

**Update or Revoke Certificates**  
Compromise of the private key represented by a digital certificate or the ability to present spoofed certificates as trusted is a critical security vulnerability as it allows an attacker to impersonate trusted resources and potentially gain unauthorized access to secure systems.

-   Remove compromised root certificates—if an attacker has managed to install a root certificate, the attacker can make malicious hosts and services seem trusted. Suspicious root certificates must be removed from the client's cache.
  
-   Revoke certificates on compromised hosts—if a host is compromised, the private key it used for digital signatures or digital envelopes is no longer safe. The certificate associated with the key should be revoked using the Key Compromise property. The certificate can be rekeyed with a new key pair but the same subject and expiry information.