# SECURITY ORCHESTRATION, AUTOMATION, AND RESPONSE

#### SECURITY ORCHESTRATION, AUTOMATION, AND RESPONSE

Automation is the action of scripting a single activity, while orchestration is the action of coordinating multiple automations (and possibly manual activity) to perform a complex, multistep task. In the case of **security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR)**, this task is principally incident response, though the technologies can also be used for tasks such as threat hunting too. SOAR is designed as a solution to the problem of the volume of alerts overwhelming analysts' ability to respond, measured as the mean time to respond (MTTR). A SOAR may be implemented as a standalone technology or integrated with a SIEM—often referred to as a next-gen SIEM. The basis of SOAR is to scan the organization's store of security and threat intelligence, analyze it using machine/deep learning techniques, and then use that data to automate and provide data enrichment for the workflows that drive incident response and threat hunting. It can also assist with provisioning tasks, such as creating and deleting user accounts, making shares available, or launching VMs from templates, to try to eliminate configuration errors. The SOAR will use technologies such as cloud and SDN/SDV APIs, orchestration tools, and cyberthreat intelligence (CTI) feeds to integrate the different systems that it is managing. It will also leverage technologies such as automated malware signature creation and user and entity behavior analytics (UEBA) to detect threats.

An incident response workflow is usually defined as a playbook. A playbook is a checklist of actions to perform to detect and respond to a specific type of incident. A playbook should be made highly specific by including the query strings and signatures that will detect a particular type of incident. A playbook will also account for compliance factors, such as whether an incident must be reported as a breach plus when and to whom notification must be made. Where a playbook is implemented with a high degree of automation from a SOAR system, it can be referred to as a **runbook**, though the terms are also widely used interchangeably. The aim of a runbook is to automate as many stages of the playbook as possible, leaving clearly defined interaction points for human analysis. These interaction points should try to present all the contextual information and guidance needed for the analyst to make a quick, informed decision about the best way to proceed with incident mitigation.

> _Rapid7 have produced an ebook demonstrating the uses of SOAR (rapid7.com/info/security-orchestration-and-automation-playbook/?x=d67w-U). A white paper by Demisto provides a useful overview of the role of SOAR across different organizations (cdn2.hubspot.net/hubfs/5003120/Content%20Downloads/White%20Papers/Demisto%20-%20State%20of%20SOAR.pdf)._