# FIRE DETECTION AND SUPPRESSION

#### FIRE DETECTION AND SUPPRESSION

Health and safety legislation dictates what mechanisms an organization must put in place to detect and suppress fires. Some basic elements of fire safety include:

-   Well-marked fire exits and an emergency evacuation procedure that is tested and practiced regularly.

-   Building design that does not allow fire to spread quickly, by separating different areas with fire-resistant walls and doors.
-   Automatic smoke or fire detection systems, as well as alarms that can be operated manually.

**Fire suppression** systems work on the basis of the fire triangle. The fire triangle works on the principle that a fire requires heat, oxygen, and fuel to ignite and burn. Removing any one of those elements provides fire suppression (and prevention). In the US (and most other countries), fires are divided by class under the NFPA (National Fire Protection Association) system, according to the combustible material that fuels the fire. Portable fire extinguishers come in several different types, with each type being designed for fighting a particular class of fire. Notably, Class C extinguishers use gas-based extinguishing and can be used where the risk of electric shock makes other types unsuitable.

> _Under the European classification system, electrical fires are Class E._

Premises may also be fitted with an overhead sprinkler system. Wet-pipe sprinklers work automatically, are triggered by heat, and discharge water. Wet-pipe systems constantly hold water at high pressure, so there is some risk of burst pipes and accidental triggering, as well as the damage that would be caused in the event of an actual fire. There are several alternatives to wet-pipe systems that can minimize damage that may be caused by water flooding the room.

-   Dry-pipe—these are used in areas where freezing is possible; water only enters this part of the system if sprinklers elsewhere are triggered.

-   Pre-action—a pre-action system only fills with water when an alarm is triggered; it will then spray when the heat rises. This gives protection against accidental discharges and burst pipes and gives some time to contain the fire manually before the sprinkler operates.

  

-   Halon—gas-based systems have the advantage of not short circuiting electrical systems and leaving no residue. Up until a few years ago, most systems used Halon 1301. The use of Halon has been banned in most countries as it is ozone depleting, though existing installations have not been replaced in many instances and can continue to operate legally.
  

-   Clean agent—alternatives to Halon are referred to as "clean agent." As well as not being environmentally damaging, these gases are considered nontoxic to humans. Examples include INERGEN (a mixture of CO₂, argon, and nitrogen), FM-200/HFC-227, and FE-13. The gases both deplete the concentration of oxygen in the area (though not to levels dangerous to humans) and have a cooling effect. CO₂ can be used too, but it is not safe for use in occupied areas.