# RISK TYPES

#### RISK TYPES

General types of risks can be identified as arising from specific threat and vulnerability scenarios.

**External**  
External threat actors are one highly visible source of risk. You must also consider wider threats than those of cyberattack. Natural disasters, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, illustrate the need to have IT systems and workflows that are resilient to widespread dislocation. The most critical type of impact is one that could lead to loss of life or critical injury. The most obvious risks to life and safety come from natural disasters, person-made disasters, and accidents, such as fire.

**Internal**  
Internal risks come from assets and workflows that are owned and managed by your organization. When reviewing internal risks, it is important to remember that these can be classed as malicious and accidental or non-malicious. Internal threats can include contractors granted temporary access.

**Multiparty**  
Multiparty risk is where an adverse event impacts multiple organizations. Multiparty risk usually arises from supplier relationships. If a critical event disrupts a supplier or customer, then your own organization will suffer. These are often described as ripple impacts. For example, if one of your top five customers goes out of business because of a data breach, your company will lose substantial revenue. Organizations in these supply chain relationships have an interest in promoting cybersecurity awareness and capability throughout the chain.

As an illustration of how **risk assessments** can change in view of multiparty relationship, consider a company that makes wireless adapters, originally for use with laptops. In the original usage, the security of the firmware upgrade process is important, but it has no impact on life or safety. The company, however, earns a new contract to supply the adapters to provide connectivity for in-vehicle electronics systems. Unknown to the company, a weakness in the design of the in-vehicle system allows an adversary to use compromised wireless adapter firmware to affect the car's control systems. The integrity of the upgrade process now has an impact on safety, and is much higher risk.

**Intellectual Property (IP) Theft**  
Intellectual property (IP) is data of commercial value that is owned by the organization. This can mean copyrighted material for retail (software, written work, video, and music) and product designs and patents. If IP data is exfiltrated it will lose much of its commercial value. Losses can be very difficult to recover in territories where there are not strong legal protections.

**Software Compliance/Licensing**  
Breaking the terms of the end user licensing agreement (EULA) that imposes conditions on installation of the software can expose the computer owner to substantial fines. License issues are most likely to arise from shadow IT, where users install software without change control approval. Network inventory management suites can report software installations on each host and correlate those with the number of license seats purchased. Licensing models can also be complex, especially where virtualization and the cloud are concerned. It is important to train the administrative staff on the specific license terms for each product.

**Legacy Systems**  
Legacy systems are a source of risk because they no longer receive security updates and because the expertise to maintain and troubleshoot them is a scarce resource.