# RISK MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES

#### RISK MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES

The result of a quantitative or qualitative analysis is a measure of inherent risk. Inherent risk is the level of risk before any type of mitigation has been attempted.

In theory, security controls or countermeasures could be introduced to address every risk factor. The difficulty is that security controls can be expensive, so you must balance the cost of the control with the cost associated with the risk. It is not possible to eliminate risk; rather the aim is to mitigate risk factors to the point where the organization is exposed only to a level of risk that it can afford. The overall status of risk management is referred to as risk posture. Risk posture shows which risk response options can be identified and prioritized. For example, you might identify the following priorities:

-   Regulatory requirements to deploy security controls and make demonstrable efforts to reduce risk. Examples of legislation and regulation that mandate risk controls include SOX, HIPAA, Gramm-Leach-Bliley, the Homeland Security Act, PCI DSS regulations, and various personal data protection measures.
  
-   High value asset, regardless of the likelihood of the threat(s).
  
-   Threats with high likelihood (that is, high ARO).
  
-   Procedures, equipment, or software that increase the likelihood of threats (for example, legacy applications, lack of user training, old software versions, unpatched software, running unnecessary services, not having auditing procedures in place, and so on).

> _In the quantitative approach, the Return on Security Investment (ROSI) can be determined by calculating a new ALE, based on the reduction in loss that will be created by the security controls introduced. The formula for calculating ROSI is: \[(ALE - ALEm) - Cost of Solution\] / Cost of Solution, where ALE is the ALE before controls and ALEm is after controls._

**Risk mitigation (or remediation)** is the overall process of reducing exposure to or the effects of risk factors. If you deploy a countermeasure that reduces exposure to a threat or vulnerability that is **risk deterrence (or reduction)**. Risk reduction refers to controls that can either make a risk incident less likely or less costly (or perhaps both). For example, if fire is a threat, a policy strictly controlling the use of flammable materials on site reduces likelihood while a system of alarms and sprinklers reduces impact by (hopefully) containing any incident to a small area. Another example is offsite data backup, which provides a remediation option in the event of servers being destroyed by fire.