# RISK AVOIDANCE AND RISK TRANSFERENCE

#### RISK AVOIDANCE AND RISK TRANSFERENCE

**Avoidance** means that you stop doing the activity that is risk-bearing. For example, a company may develop an in-house application for managing inventory and then try to sell it. If while selling it, the application is discovered to have numerous security vulnerabilities that generate complaints and threats of legal action, the company may make the decision that the cost of maintaining the security of the software is not worth the revenue and withdraw it from sale. Obviously this would generate considerable bad feeling among existing customers. Avoidance is not often a credible option.

**Transference (or sharing)** means assigning risk to a third party, such as an insurance company or a contract with a supplier that defines liabilities. For example, a company could stop in-house maintenance of an e-commerce site and contract the services to a third party, who would be liable for any fraud or data theft. Specific cybersecurity insurance or cyberliability coverage protects against fines and liabilities arising from data breaches and DoS attacks.

> _Note that in this sort of case it is relatively simple to transfer the obvious risks, but risks to the company's reputation remain. If a customer's credit card details are stolen because they used your unsecure e-commerce application, the customer won't care if you or a third party were nominally responsible for security. It is also unlikely that legal liabilities could be completely transferred in this way. For example, insurance terms are likely to require that best practice risk controls have been implemented._