# RISK ACCEPTANCE AND RISK APPETITE

#### RISK ACCEPTANCE AND RISK APPETITE

It is not possible to reduce risks to zero, so part of risk posture is concerned with managing what risks remain.

**Risk Acceptance**  
**Risk acceptance** (or tolerance)means that no countermeasures are put in place either because the level of risk does not justify the cost or because there will be unavoidable delay before the countermeasures are deployed. In this case, you should continue to monitor the risk (as opposed to ignoring it).

**Residual Risk and Risk Appetite**  
Where inherent risk is the risk before mitigation, **residual risk** is the likelihood and impact after specific mitigation, transference, or acceptance measures have been applied. Risk appetite is a strategic assessment of what level of residual risk is tolerable. Risk appetite is broad in scope. Where risk acceptance has the scope of a single system, risk appetite has a project- or institution-wide scope. Risk appetite is constrained by regulation and compliance.

**Control Risk**  
**Control risk** is a measure of how much less effective a security control has become over time. For example, antivirus became quite capable of detecting malware on the basis of signatures, but then less effective as threat actors started to obfuscate code. Control risk can also refer a security control that was never effective in mitigating inherent risk. This illustrates the point that risk management is an ongoing process, requiring continual reassessment and re-prioritization.