# CLOUD DEPLOYMENT MODELS

#### CLOUD DEPLOYMENT MODELS

A **cloud deployment** model classifies how the service is owned and provisioned. It is important to recognize the different impacts deployment models have on threats and vulnerabilities. Cloud deployment models can be broadly categorized as follows:

-   **Public (or multi-tenant)**—a service offered over the Internet by **cloud service providers (CSPs)** to cloud consumers. With this model, businesses can offer subscriptions or pay-as-you-go financing, while at the same time providing lower-tier services free of charge. As a shared resource, there are risks regarding performance and security. **Multi-cloud** architectures are where an organization uses services from multiple CSPs.
  
-   Hosted Private—hosted by a third-party for the exclusive use of the organization. This is more secure and can guarantee a better level of performance but is correspondingly more expensive.
  
-   **Private**—cloud infrastructure that is completely private to and owned by the organization. In this case, there is likely to be one business unit dedicated to managing the cloud while other business units make use of it. With private **cloud computing**, organizations can exercise greater control over the privacy and security of their services. This type of delivery method is geared more toward banking and governmental services that require strict access control in their operations.
  
This type of cloud could be on-premise or offsite relative to the other business units. An onsite link can obviously deliver better performance and is less likely to be subject to outages (loss of an Internet link, for instance). On the other hand, a dedicated offsite facility may provide better shared access for multiple users in different locations.

-   **Community**—this is where several organizations share the costs of either a hosted private or fully private cloud. This is usually done in order to pool resources for a common concern, like standardization and security policies.

  

There will also be cloud computing solutions that implement some sort of hybrid public/private/community/hosted/onsite/offsite solution. For example, a travel organization may run a sales website for most of the year using a private cloud but break out the solution to a public cloud at times when much higher utilization is forecast.

Flexibility is a key advantage of cloud computing, but the implications for data risk must be well understood when moving data between private and public storage environments.