# SECURITY AS A SERVICE

#### SECURITY AS A SERVICE

The breadth of technologies requiring specialist security knowledge and configuration makes it likely that companies will need to depend on third-party support at some point. You can classify such support in three general "tiers":

  
-   Consultants—the experience and perspective of a third-party professional can be hugely useful in improving security awareness and capabilities in any type of organization (small to large). Consultants could be used for "big picture" framework analysis and alignment or for more specific or product-focused projects (pen testing, SIEM rollout, and so on). It is also fairly simple to control costs when using consultants if they are used to develop capabilities rather than implement them. Where consultants come to "own" the security function, it can be difficult to change or sever the relationship.
  
-   **Managed Security Services Provider (MSSP)**—a means of fully outsourcing responsibility for information assurance to a third party. This type of solution is expensive but can be a good fit for an SME that has experienced rapid growth and has no in-house security capability. Of course, this type of outsourcing places a huge amount of trust in the MSSP. Maintaining effective oversight of the MSSP requires a good degree of internal security awareness and expertise. There could also be significant challenges in industries exposed to high degrees of regulation in terms of information processing.
  
-   **Security as a Service (SECaaS)**—can mean lots of different things, but is typically distinguished from an MSSP as being a means of implementing a particular security control, such as virus scanning or SIEM-like functionality, in the cloud. Typically, there would be a connector to the cloud service installed locally. For example, an antivirus agent would scan files locally but be managed and updated from the cloud provider; similarly a log collector would submit events to the cloud service for aggregation and correlation. Examples include Cloudflare (cloudflare.com/saas), Mandiant/FireEye (fireeye.com/mandiant/managed-detection-and-response.html), and SonicWall (sonicwall.com/solutions/service-provider/security-as-a-service).