# VIRTUAL DESKTOP INFRASTRUCTURE AND THIN CLIENTS

#### VIRTUAL DESKTOP INFRASTRUCTURE AND THIN CLIENTS

**Virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI)** refers to using a VM as a means of provisioning corporate desktops. In a typical VDI, desktop computers are replaced by low-spec, low-power thin client computers. When the thin client starts, it boots a minimal OS, allowing the user to log on to a VM stored on the company server infrastructure. The user makes a connection to the VM using some sort of remote desktop protocol (Microsoft Remote Desktop or Citrix ICA, for instance). The thin client has to find the correct image and use an appropriate authentication mechanism. There may be a 1:1 mapping based on machine name or IP address or the process of finding an image may be handled by a connection broker.

All application processing and data storage in the **virtual desktop environment (VDE)** or workspace is performed by the server. The thin client computer must only be powerful enough to display the screen image, play audio, and transfer mouse, key commands and video, and audio information over the network. All data is stored on the server, so it is easier to back up and the desktop VMs are easier to support and troubleshoot. They are better "locked" against unsecure user practices because any changes to the VM can easily be overwritten from the template image. With VDI, it is also easier for a company to completely offload their IT infrastructure to a third-party services company.

The main disadvantage is that in the event of a failure in the server and network infrastructure, users have no local processing ability, so downtime events may be more costly in terms of lost productivity.