# CLOUD SECURITY INTEGRATION AND AUDITING

#### CLOUD SECURITY INTEGRATION AND AUDITING

Cloud-based services must be integrated within regular security policies and procedures and audited for compliance. Where indicators of on-premises attacks are found in local application logs and network traffic, indicators of cloud-based attacks are found in API logs and metrics. The same correlation to suspicious IP address ranges and domains and suspicious code strings must be made, but the source of this data is the cloud service provider (CSP). Accessing this auditing information in real time may be difficult, depending on the cloud service type. There are many cloud-based SIEM solutions that can perform this collection, aggregation, and correlation of security data from both on-premises and cloud-based networks and instances.

As with any contracted service, cloud computing is a means of transferring risk. As such, it is imperative to identify precisely which risks you are transferring, to identify which responsibilities the service provider is undertaking, and to identify which responsibilities remain with you. This should be set out in a service level agreement (SLA) with a responsibility matrix. For example, in an SaaS solution, the provider may be responsible for the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the software. They would be responsible for configuring a fault tolerant, clustered server service; for firewalling the servers and creating proper authentication, authorization, and accounting procedures; for scanning for intrusions and monitoring network logs, applying OS and software patches; and so on. You might or might not be responsible for some or all of the software management functions, though—ensuring that administrators and users practice good password management, configuring system privileges, making backups of data, and so on.

Where critical tasks are the responsibility of the service provider, you should try to ensure that there is a reporting mechanism to show that these tasks are being completed, that their disaster recovery plans are effective, and so on.

Another proviso is that your company is likely to still be directly liable for serious security breaches; if customer data is stolen, for instance, or if your hosted website is hacked and used to distribute malware. You still have liability for legal and regulatory requirements. You might be able to sue the service provider for damages, but your company would still be the point of investigation. You may also need to consider the legal implications of using a cloud provider if its servers are located in a different country.

You must also consider the risk of insider threat, where the insiders are administrators working for the service provider. Without effective security mechanisms such as separation of duties and quorum authentication (also known as M of N access control), it is highly likely that they would be able to gain privileged access to your data. Consequently, the service provider must be able to demonstrate to your satisfaction that they are prevented from doing so. There is also the risk described earlier that your data is in proximity to other, unknown virtual servers and that some sort of attack could be launched on your data from another virtual server.

> _The Twitter hack affecting high-profile accounts being hijacked for a bitcoin scam is a good illustration of the risks from insider threat (scmagazine.com/home/security-news/insider-threats/twitter-hack-is-a-reminder-of-the-dangers-of-unfettered-employee-access)._

As with any contracted service, with any \*aaS solution, you place a large amount of trust in the service provider. The more important the service is to your business, the more risk you are investing in that trust relationship.