# CLOUD SECURITY CONTROLS

#### CLOUD SECURITY CONTROLS

Clouds use the same types of security controls as on-premises networks, including identity and access management (IAM), endpoint protection (for virtual instances), resource policies to govern access to data and services, firewalls to filter traffic between hosts, and logging to provide an audit function.

Most CSP's will provide these security controls as native functionality of the cloud platform. Google's firewall service is an example of this type of cloud native control (cloud.google.com/firewalls). The controls can be deployed and configured using either the CSP's web console, or programmatically via a command line interface (CLI) or application programming interface (API). A third-party solution would typically be installed as a virtual instance within the cloud. For example, you might prefer to run a third-party next-generation firewall. This can be configured as an appliance and deployed to the cloud. The virtual network architecture can be defined so that this appliance instance is able to inspect traffic and apply policies to it, either by routing the traffic through the instance or by using some type of bridging or mirroring. As an example, consider the configuration guide for the Barracuda next-gen firewall (campus.barracuda.com/product/cloudgenfirewall/doc/79462645/overview).

The same considerations can be made for other types of security controls—notably data loss prevention and compliance management. Cloud native controls might not exist for these use cases, they might not meet the functional requirements that third party solutions can, and there may be too steep a transition in terms of change management and skills development.

**Application Security and IAM**  
Application security in the cloud refers both to the software development process and to identity and access management (IAM) features designed to ensure authorized use of applications.

Just as with on-premises solutions, cloud-based IAM enables the creation of user and user security groups, plus role-based management of privileges.

**Secrets Management**  
A cloud service is highly vulnerable to remote access. A failure of credential management is likely to be exploited by malicious actors. You must enforce strong authentication policies to mitigate risks:

  
-   Do not use the root user for the CSP account for any day-to-day logon activity.
  
-   Require strong multifactor authentication (MFA) for interactive logons. Use conditional authentication to deny or warn of risky account activity.
  
-   Principals—user accounts, security groups, roles, and services—can interact with cloud services via CLIs and APIs. Such programmatic access is enabled by assigning a secret key to the account. Only the secret key (not the ordinary account credential) can be used for programmatic access. When a secret key is generated for an account, it must immediately be transferred to the host and kept securely on that host.