# CLOUD STORAGE SECURITY

#### CLOUD STORAGE SECURITY

Where the compute component refers to CPU and system memory resources, the storage component means the provisioning of peristent storage capacity. As with the compute component, the cloud virtualization layer abstracts the underlying hardware to provide the required storage type, such as a virtual hard disk for a VM instance, object-based storage to serve static files in a web application, or block storage for use by a database server. Storage profiles will have different performance characteristics for different applications, such as fast SSD-backed storage for databases versus slower HDD-backed media for archiving. The principal performance metric is the number of input/output operations per second (IOPS) supported.

**Permissions and Resource Policies**  
As with on-premises systems, cloud storage resources must be configured to allow reads and/or writes only from authorized endpoints. In the cloud, a resource policy acts as the ACL for an object. In a resource policy, permissions statements are typically written as a JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) strings. Misconfiguration of these resource policies is a widely exploited attack vector. For example, the following policy uses the "any" wildcard (\*) to assign both actions (read and write) and principals (accounts) to a storage object. The type of policy breaks the principle of least privilege and is highly unsecure:

```Json
"Statement": [ {
 "Action": [
   "*"
 ],

 "Effect": "Allow",
 "Principal": "*",
 "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::515support-courses-data/*"
} ]
``` 

**Encryption**  
Cloud storage encryption equates to the on-premises concept of full disk encryption (FDE). The purpose is to minimize the risk of data loss via an insider or intruder attack on the CSP's storage systems. Each storage unit is encrypted using an AES key. If an attacker were to physically access a data center and copy or remove a disk, the data on the disk would not be readable.

To read or write the data, the AES key must be available to the VM or container using the storage object. With CSP-managed keys, the cloud provider handles this process by using the access control rights configured on the storage resource to determine whether access is approved and, if so, making the key available to the VM or container. The key will be stored in a hardware security module (HSM) within the cloud. The HSM and separation of duties policies protect the keys from insider threat. Alternatively, customers can manage keys themselves, taking on all responsibility for secure distribution and storage.

Encryption can also be applied at other levels. For example, applications can selectively encrypt file system objects or use database-level encryption to encrypt fields and/or records. All networking—whether customer to cloud or between VMs/containers within the cloud—should use encrypted protocols such as HTTPS or IPSec.