# HIGH AVAILABILITY

#### HIGH AVAILABILITY

One of the benefits of the cloud is the potential for providing services that are resilient to failures at different levels, such as component, server, local network, site, data center, and wide area network. The CSP uses a virtualization layer to ensure that compute, storage, and network provision meet the availability criteria set out in its SLA. In terms of storage performance tiers, high availability (HA) refers to storage provisioned with a guarantee of 99.99% uptime or better. As with on-premises architecture, the CSP uses redundancy to make multiple disk controllers and storage devices available to a pool of storage resource. Data may be replicated between pools or groups, with each pool supported by separate hardware resources.

**Replication**  
Data **replication** allows businesses to copy data to where it can be utilized most effectively. The cloud may be used as a central storage area, making data available among all business units. Data replication requires low latency network connections, security, and data integrity. CSPs offer several data storage performance tiers (cloud.google.com/storage/docs/storage-classes). The terms hot and cold storage refer to how qu>uickly data is retrieved. Hot storage retrieves data more quickly than cold, but the quicker the data retrieval, the higher the cost. Different applications have diverse replication requirements. A database generally needs low-latency, synchronous replication, as a transaction often cannot be considered complete until it has been made on all replicas. A mechanism to replicate data files to backup storage might not have such high requirements, depending on the criticality of the data.

**High Availability across Zones**  
CSPs divide the world into regions. Each region is independent of the others. The regions are divided into availability zones. The availability zones have independent data centers with their own power, cooling, and network connectivity. You can choose to host data, services, and VM instances in a particular region to provide a lower latency service to customers. Provisioning resources in multiple zones and regions can also improve performance and increases redundancy, but requires an adequate level of replication performance.

Consequently, CSPs offer several tiers of replication representing different high availability service levels:

  
-   Local replication—replicates your data within a single data center in the region where you created your storage account. The replicas are often in separate fault domains and upgrade domains.
  
-   Regional replication (also called zone-redundant storage)—replicates your data across multiple data centers within one or two regions. This safeguards data and access in the event a single data center is destroyed or goes offline.
  
-   Geo-redundant storage (GRS)—replicates your data to a secondary region that is distant from the primary region. This safeguards data in the event of a regional outage or a disaster.