# CLOUD FIREWALL SECURITY

#### CLOUD FIREWALL SECURITY

As in an on-premises network, a firewall determines whether to accept or deny/discard incoming and outgoing traffic. Firewalls work with multiple accounts, VPCs, subnets within VPCs, and instances within subnets to enforce the segmentation required by the architectural design. Segmentation may be needed for many different reasons, including separating workloads for performance and load balancing, keeping data processing within an isolated segment for compliance with laws and regulations, and compartmentalizing data access and processing for different departments or functional requirements.

Filtering decisions can be made based on packet headers and payload contents at various layers, identified in terms of the OSI model:

  
-   Network layer (layer 3)—the firewall accepts or denies connections on the basis of IP addresses or address ranges and TCP/UDP port numbers (the latter are actually contained in layer 4 headers, but this functionality is still always described as basic layer 3 packet filtering).
  
-   Transport layer (layer 4)—the firewall can store connection states and use rules to allow established or related traffic. Because the firewall must maintain a state table of existing connections, this requires more processing power (CPU and memory).
  
-   Application layer (layer 7)—the firewall can parse application protocol headers and payloads (such as HTTP packets) and make filtering decisions based on their contents. This requires even greater processing capacity (or load balancing), or the firewall will become a bottleneck and increase network latency.
  

While you can use cloud-based firewalls to implement on-premises network security, here we are primarily concerned with the use of firewalls to filter traffic within and to and from the cloud itself. Such firewalls can be implemented in several ways to suit different purposes:

  
-   As software running on an instance. This sort of host-based firewall is identical to ones that you would configure for an on-premises host. It could be a stateful packet filtering firewall or a web application firewall (WAF) with a ruleset tuned to preventing malicious attacks. The drawback is that the software consumes instance resources and so is not very efficient. Also, managing the rulesets across many instances can be challenging.
  
-   As a service at the virtualization layer to filter traffic between VPC subnets and instances. This equates to the concept of an on-premises network firewall.
  

Native cloud application-aware firewalls incur transaction costs, typically calculated on time deployed and traffic volume. These costs might be a reason to choose a third-party solution instead of the native control.