# SERVERLESS ARCHITECTURE

#### SERVERLESS ARCHITECTURE

Serverless is a modern design pattern for service delivery. It is strongly associated with modern web applications—most notably Netflix (aws.amazon.com/solutions/case-studies/netflix-and-aws-lambda)—but providers are appearing with products to completely replace the concept of the corporate LAN. With **serverless**, all the architecture is hosted within a cloud, but unlike "traditional" virtual private cloud (VPC) offerings, services such as authentication, web applications, and communications aren't developed and managed as applications running on VM instances located within the cloud. Instead, the applications are developed as functions and microservices, each interacting with other functions to facilitate client requests. When the client requires some operation to be processed, the cloud spins up a container to run the code, performs the processing, and then destroys the container. Billing is based on execution time, rather than hourly charges. This type of service provision is also called function as a service (FaaS). FaaS products include AWS Lambda (aws.amazon.com/lambda), Google Cloud Functions (cloud.google.com/functions), and Microsoft Azure Functions (azure.microsoft.com/services/functions).

The serverless paradigm eliminates the need to manage physical or virtual server instances, so there is no management effort for software and patches, administration privileges, or file system security monitoring. There is no requirement to provision multiple servers for redundancy or load balancing. As all of the processing is taking place within the cloud, there is little emphasis on the provision of a corporate network. This underlying architecture is managed by the service provider. The principal network security job is to ensure that the clients accessing the services have not been compromised in a way that allows a malicious actor to impersonate a legitimate user. This is a particularly important consideration for the developer accounts and devices used to update the application code underpinning the services. These workstations must be fully locked down, running no other applications or web code than those necessary for development.

Serverless does have considerable risks. As a new paradigm, use cases and best practices are not mature, especially as regards security. There is also a critical and unavoidable dependency on the service provider, with limited options for disaster recovery should that service provision fail.

Serverless architecture depends heavily on the concept of event-driven orchestration to facilitate operations. For example, when a client connects to an application, multiple services will be called to authenticate the user and device, identify the device location and address properties, create a session, load authorizations for the action, use application logic to process the action, read or commit information from a database, and write a log of the transaction. This design logic is different from applications written to run in a "monolithic" server-based environment. This means that adapting existing corporate software will require substantial development effort.