# SOFTWARE-DEFINED NETWORKING

#### SOFTWARE-DEFINED NETWORKING

IaC is partly facilitated by physical and virtual network appliances that are fully configurable via scripting and APIs. As networks become more complex—perhaps involving thousands of physical and virtual computers and appliances—it becomes more difficult to implement network policies, such as ensuring security and managing traffic flow. With so many devices to configure, it is better to take a step back and consider an abstracted model about how the network functions. In this model, network functions can be divided into three "planes":

  
-   Control plane—makes decisions about how traffic should be prioritized and secured, and where it should be switched.
  
-   Data plane—handles the actual switching and routing of traffic and imposition of security access controls.
  
-   Management plane—monitors traffic conditions and network status.
  

A **software-defined networking (SDN)** application can be used to define policy decisions on the control plane. These decisions are then implemented on the data plane by a network controller application, which interfaces with the network devices using APIs. The interface between the SDN applications and the SDN controller is described as the "northbound" API, while that between the controller and appliances is the "southbound" API. SDN can be used to manage compatible physical appliances, but also virtual switches, routers, and firewalls. The architecture supporting rapid deployment of virtual networking using general-purpose VMs and containers is called **network functions virtualization (NFV)** (redhat.com/en/topics/virtualization/what-is-nfv).

This architecture saves network and security administrators the job and complexity of configuring each appliance with proper settings to enforce the desired policy. It also allows for fully automated deployment (or provisioning) of network links, appliances, and servers. This makes SDN an important part of the latest automation and orchestration technologies.