# FOG AND EDGE COMPUTING

#### FOG AND EDGE COMPUTING

Most of the cloud services we have considered so far are "user-facing." They support applications that human users interact with, such as video streaming, CRM, business analytics, email and conferencing, endpoint protection analytics, and so on. However, a very large and increasing amount of cloud data processing takes place with data generated by Internet of Things (IoT) devices and sensors. Industrial processes and even home automation are availability-focused. While confidentiality and integrity are still important concerns, service interruption in an operational technology network can be physically dangerous. Consequently, there is a strong requirement to retrieve and analzye IoT data with low latency.

A traditional data center architecture does not meet this requirement very well. Sensors are quite likely to have relatively low-bandwidth, higher latency WAN links to data networks. Sensors may generate huge quantities of data only a selection of which needs to be prioritized for analysis. **Fog computing**, developed by Cisco (cisco.com/c/dam/en\_us/solutions/trends/iot/docs/computing-overview.pdf), addresses these requirements by placing fog node processing resources close to the physical location for the IoT sensors. The sensors communicate with the fog node, using Wi-Fi, ZigBee, or 4G/5G, and the fog node prioritizes traffic, analyzes and remediates alertable conditions, and backhauls remaining data to the data center for storage and low-priority analysis.

**Edge computing** is a broader concept partially developed from fog computing and partially evolved in parallel to it. Fog computing is now seen as working within the concept of edge computing. Edge computing uses the following concepts:

  
-   Edge devices are those that collect and depend upon data for their operation. For example, a thermometer in an HVAC system collects temperature data; the controller in an HVAC system activates the electromechanical components to turn the heating or air conditioning on or off in response to ambient temperature changes. The impact of latency becomes apparent when you consider edge devices such as self-driving automobiles.
  
-   Edge gateways perform some pre-processing of data to and from edge devices to enable prioritization. They also perform the wired or wireless connectivity to transfer data to and from the storage and processing networks.
  
-   Fog nodes can be incorporated as a data processing layer positioned close to the edge gateways, assisting the prioritization of critical data transmission.
  
-   The cloud or data center layer provides the main storage and processing resources, plus distribution and aggregation of data between sites.
  

In security terms, the fog node or edge gateway layers represent high-value targets for both denial of service and data exfiltration attacks.

> _The controversy over the use of Huawei's equipment within 5G and edge networks illustrates the risks and concerns over supply chains and trusted computing (threatpost.com/huawei-5g-security-implications/152926)._