# DATA ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

#### DATA ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

A **data governance** policy describes the security controls that will be applied to protect data at each stage of its life cycle. There are important institutional governance roles for oversight and management of information assets within the life cycle:

-   **Data owner**—a senior (executive) role with ultimate responsibility for maintaining the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the information asset. The owner is responsible for labeling the asset (such as determining who should have access and determining the asset's criticality and sensitivity) and ensuring that it is protected with appropriate controls (access control, backup, retention, and so forth). The owner also typically selects a steward and custodian and directs their actions and sets the budget and resource allocation for sufficient controls.
  
-   **Data steward**—this role is primarily responsible for data quality. This involves tasks such as ensuring data is labeled and identified with appropriate metadata and that data is collected and stored in a format and with values that comply with applicable laws and regulations.
  
-   **Data custodian**—this role handles managing the system on which the data assets are stored. This includes responsibility for enforcing access control, encryption, and backup/recovery measures.
  
-   **Data Privacy Officer (DPO)**—this role is responsible for oversight of any personally identifiable information (PII) assets managed by the company. The privacy officer ensures that the processing, disclosure, and retention of PII complies with legal and regulatory frameworks.
  

In the context of legislation and regulations protecting personal privacy, the following two institutional roles are important:

-   **Data controller**—the entity responsible for determining why and how data is stored, collected, and used and for ensuring that these purposes and means are lawful. The data controller has ultimate responsibility for privacy breaches, and is not permitted to transfer that responsibility.
  
-   **Data processor**—an entity engaged by the data controller to assist with technical collection, storage, or analysis tasks. A data processor follows the instructions of a data controller with regard to collection or processing.
  

Data controller and processor tend to be organizational roles rather than individual ones. For example, if Widget.foo collects personal data to operate a webstore on its own cloud, it is a data collector and data processor. If Widget.foo passes aggregate data to Grommet.foo asking them to run profitability analytics for different customer segments on its AI-backed cloud, Grommet.foo is a data processor acting under the instruction of Widget.foo. Within the Grommet.foo and Widget.foo companies, the data owner might take personal responsibility for the lawful performance of data controller and processor functions.