# DATA TYPES

#### DATA TYPES

A type schema applies a more detailed label to data than simple classification.

**Personally Identifiable Information (PII)**  
**Personally identifiable information (PII)** is data that can be used to identify, contact, or locate an individual. A Social Security Number (SSN) is a good example of PII. Others include name, date of birth, email address, telephone number, street address, biometric data, and so on. Some bits of information, such as a SSN, may be unique; others uniquely identify an individual in combination (for example, full name with birth date and street address).

Some types of information may be PII depending on the context. For example, when someone browses the web using a static IP address, the IP address is PII. An address that is dynamically assigned by the ISP may not be considered PII. PII is often used for password reset mechanisms and to confirm identity over the telephone. For example, PII may be defined as responses to challenge questions, such as "What is your favorite color/pet/movie?" These are the sort of complexities that must be considered when laws are introduced to control the collection and storage of personal data.

**Customer Data**  
Customer data can be institutional information, but also personal information about the customer's employees, such as sales and technical support contacts. This personal customer data should be treated as PII. Institutional information might be shared under a nondisclosure agreement (NDA), placing contractual obligations on storing and processing it securely.

**Health Information**  
**Personal health information (PHI)**—or protected health information—refers to medical and insurance records, plus associated hospital and laboratory test results. PHI may be associated with a specific person or used as an anonymized or deidentified data set for analysis and research. An anonymized data set is one where the identifying data is removed completely. A deidentified set contains codes that allow the subject information to be reconstructed by the data provider.

PHI trades at high values on the black market, making it an attractive target. Criminals seek to exploit the data for insurance fraud or possibly to blackmail victims. PHI data is extremely sensitive and its loss has a permanent effect. Unlike a credit card number or bank account number, it cannot be changed. Consequently, the reputational damage that would be caused by a PHI data breach is huge.

**Financial Information**  
**Financial information** refers to data held about bank and investment accounts, plus information such as payroll and tax returns. Payment card information comprises the card number, expiry date, and the three-digit card verification value (CVV). Cards are also associated with a PIN, but this should never be transmitted to or handled by the merchant. Abuse of the card may also require the holder's name and the address the card is registered to. The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) defines the safe handling and storage of this information (pcisecuritystandards.org/pci\_security).

**Government Data**  
Internally, government agencies have complex data collection and processing requirements. In the US, federal laws place certain requirements on institutions that collect and process data about citizens and taxpayers. This data may be shared with companies for analysis under strict agreements to preserve security and privacy.