# PRIVACY BREACHES AND DATA BREACHES

#### PRIVACY BREACHES AND DATA BREACHES

A **data breach** occurs when information is read, modified, or deleted without authorization. "Read" in this sense can mean either seen by a person or transferred to a network or storage media. A data breach is the loss of any type of data (but notably corporate information and intellectual property), while a privacy breach refers specifically to loss or disclosure of personal and sensitive data.

**Organizational Consequences**  
A data or privacy breach can have severe organizational consequences:

-   Reputation damage—data breaches cause widespread negative publicity, and customers are less likely to trust a company that cannot secure its information assets.
  
-   Identity theft—if the breached data is exploited to perform identity theft, the data subject may be able to sue for damages.
  
-   Fines—legislation might empower a regulator to levy fines. These can be fixed sum or in the most serious cases a percentage of turnover.
  
-   IP theft—loss of company data can lead to loss of revenue. This typically occurs when copyright material—unreleased movies and music tracks—is breached. The loss of patents, designs, trade secrets, and so on to competitors or state actors can also cause commercial losses, especially in overseas markets where IP theft may be difficult to remedy through legal action.
  

**Notifications of Breaches**  
The requirements for different types of breach are set out in law and/or in regulations. The requirements indicate who must be notified. A data breach can mean the loss or theft of information, the accidental disclosure of information, or the loss or damage of information. Note that there are substantial risks from accidental breaches if effective procedures are not in place. If a database administrator can run a query that shows unredacted credit card numbers, that is a data breach, regardless of whether the query ever leaves the database server.

**Escalation**  
A breach may be detected by technical staff and if the event is considered minor, there may be a temptation to remediate the system and take no further notification action. This could place the company in legal jeopardy. Any breach of personal data and most breaches of IP should be **escalated** to senior decision-makers and any impacts from legislation and regulation properly considered.

**Public Notification and Disclosure**  
Other than the regulator, notification might need to be made to law enforcement, individuals and third-party companies affected by the breach, and publicly through press or social media channels. For example, the **Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)** sets out reporting requirements in legislation, requiring breach notification to the affected individuals, the Secretary of the US Department of Health and Human Services, and, if more than 500 individuals are affected, to the media (hhs.gov/hipaa/for-professionals/breach-notification/index.html). The requirements also set out timescales for when these parties should be notified. For example, under GDPR, notification must be made within 72 hours of becoming aware of a breach of personal data (csoonline.com/article/3383244/how-to-report-a-data-breach-under-gdpr.html). Regulations will also set out disclosing requirements, or the information that must be provided to each of the affected parties. Disclosure is likely to include a description of what information was breached, details for the main point-of-contact, likely consequences arising from the breach, and measures taken to mitigate the breach.

GDPR offers stronger protections than most federal and state laws in the US, which tend to focus on industry-specific regulations, narrower definitions of personal data, and fewer rights and protections for data subjects. The passage of the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) has changed the picture for domestic US legislation, however (csoonline.com/article/3292578/california-consumer-privacy-act-what-you-need-to-know-to-be-compliant.html).