# Brute Force and Dictionary Attacks

#### BRUTE-FORCE AND DICTIONARY ATTACKS

Some password attacks exploit the weak credentials chosen by users. Others can exploit vulnerabilities in the storage mechanism. For example, the Windows SAM database can be configured to store hashes for compatibility with older versions (LM and NTLMv1 hashes). These legacy hashes are cryptographically weak and highly vulnerable to password cracking ([ldapwiki.com/wiki/LM%20hash](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/brute-force-and-dictionary-attacks)).

**Brute-Force Attack**  
A **brute-force attack** attempts every possible combination in the output space in order to match a captured hash and guess at the plaintext that generated it. The output space is determined by the number of bits used by the algorithm (128-bit MD5 or 256-bit SHA256, for instance). The larger the output space and the more characters that were used in the plaintext password, the more difficult it is to compute and test each possible hash to find a match. Brute-force attacks are heavily constrained by time and computing resources, and are therefore most effective at cracking short passwords. However, brute-force attacks distributed across multiple hardware components, like a cluster of high-end graphics cards, can be successful at cracking longer passwords.

**Dictionary and Rainbow Table Attacks**  
A **dictionary attack** can be used where there is a good chance of guessing the likely value of the plaintext, such as a non-complex password. The software generates hash values from a dictionary of plaintexts to try to match one to a captured hash. **Rainbow table** attacks refine the dictionary approach. The attacker uses a precomputed lookup table of all possible passwords and their matching hashes. Not all possible hash values are stored, as this would require too much memory. Values are computed in chains, and only the first and last values need to be stored. The hash value of a stored password can then be looked up in the table and the corresponding plaintext discovered.

Using a salt to add a random value to the stored plaintext helps to slow down rainbow table attacks, because the tables cannot be created in advance and must be recreated for each combination of password and salt value. Rainbow tables are also impractical when trying to discover long passwords (more than about 14 characters). UNIX and Linux password storage mechanisms use salt, but Windows does not. Consequently, in a Windows environment, it is even more important to enforce strong password policies.

**Hybrid Attack**  
A **hybrid password attack** uses a combination of dictionary and brute-force attacks. It is principally targeted against naïve passwords with inadequate complexity, such as `james1`. The password cracking algorithm tests dictionary words and names in combination with a mask that limits the number of variations to test for, such as adding numeric prefixes and/or suffixes. Other types of algorithms can be applied, based on what hackers know about how users behave when forced to select complex passwords that they don't really want to make hard to remember. Other examples might include substituting "s" with "5" or "o" with "0."