# Implement Authentication Technologies

> EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED  
> _2.4 Summarize authentication and authorization design concepts  
> 3.3 Given a scenario, implement secure network designs (HSM only)  
> 3.8 Given a scenario, implement authentication and authorization solutions_

Authentication technologies can be used as a something you have or ownership/possession factor. Many organizations are deploying multifactor authentication systems based on smart cards and USB key fobs. You are likely to have to support the installation and configuration of these technologies during your career.

#### SMART-CARD AUTHENTICATION

**Smart-card authentication** means programming cryptographic information onto a card equipped with a secure processing chip. The chip stores the user's digital certificate, the private key associated with the certificate, and a personal identification number (PIN) used to activate the card.

For Kerberos authentication, smart-card logon works as follows:

1.  The user presents the smart card to a reader and is prompted to enter a PIN.
    
2.  Inputting the correct PIN authorizes the smart card's cryptoprocessor to use its private key to create a Ticket Granting Ticket (TGT) request, which is transmitted to the authentication server (AS).
    
3.  The AS is able to decrypt the request because it has a matching public key and trusts the user's certificate, either because it was issued by a local certification authority or by a third-party CA that is a trusted root CA.
    
4.  The AS responds with the TGT and Ticket Granting Service (TGS) session key.
    

> _"Smart card" can refer to a wide range of different technologies. Secure Kerberos-based authentication requires a card with a cryptoprocessor ([smartcardbasics.com/smart-card-types.html](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/implement-authentication-technologies))._