# Key Management Devices

#### KEY MANAGEMENT DEVICES

When using public key infrastructure (PKI) for smart-card authentication, the security of the private key issued to each user is critical. One problem is that only the user should ever be in ownership of the private key. If the network administrator is able to view these keys, they can impersonate any subject. Various technologies can be used to avoid the need for an administrator to generate a private key and transmit it to the user:

-   Smart card—some cards are powerful enough to generate key material using the cryptoprocessor embedded in the card.
    
-   USB key—a cryptoprocessor can also be implemented in the USB form factor.
    
-   Trusted Platform Module (TPM)—a secure cryptoprocessor enclave implemented on a PC, laptop, smartphone, or network appliance. The TPM is usually a module within the CPU. Modification of TPM data is only permitted by highly trusted processes. A TPM can be used to present a virtual smart card ([docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/identity-protection/virtual-smart-cards/virtual-smart-card-overview](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/key-management-devices)).
    

Smart cards, USB keys, and virtual smart cards are provisioned as individual devices. Often keys need to be provisioned to non-user devices too, such as servers and network appliances. A **hardware security module (HSM)** is a network appliance designed to perform centralized PKI management for a network of devices. This means that it can act as an archive or escrow for keys in case of loss or damage. Compared to using a general-purpose server for certificate services, HSMs are optimized for the role and so have a smaller attack surface. HSMs are designed to be tamper-evident to mitigate risk of insider threat, and can also provide enterprise-strength cryptographically secure pseudorandom number generators (CSPRNGs). HSMs can be implemented in several form factors, including rack-mounted appliances, plug-in PCIe adapter cards, and USB-connected external peripherals.

> _The FIPS 140-2 scheme provides accreditation for cryptographically strong products. ([entrust.com/digital-security/hsm/solutions/compliance/certifications/fips-140-2](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/key-management-devices))_