# Extensible Authentication Protocol/IEEE 802.1X

#### EXTENSIBLE AUTHENTICATION PROTOCOL/IEEE 802.1X

The smart-card authentication process described earlier is used for Kerberos authentication where the computer is attached to the local network and the user is logging on to Windows. Authentication may also be required in other contexts:

-   When the user is accessing a wireless network and needs to authenticate with the network database.
    
-   When a device is connecting to a network via a switch and network policies require the user to be authenticated before the device is allowed to communicate.
    
-   When the user is connecting to the network over a public network via a virtual private network (VPN).
    

In these scenarios, the **Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)** provides a framework for deploying multiple types of authentication protocols and technologies. EAP allows lots of different authentication methods, but many of them use a digital certificate on the server and/or client machines. This allows the machines to establish a trust relationship and create a secure tunnel to transmit the user credential or to perform smart-card authentication without a user password.

Where EAP provides the authentication mechanisms, the **IEEE 802.1X** Port-based Network Access Control (NAC) protocol provides the means of using an EAP method when a device connects to an Ethernet switch port, wireless access point (with enterprise authentication configured), or VPN gateway. 802.1X uses authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA) architecture:

-   **Supplicant**—the device requesting access, such as a user's PC or laptop.
    
-   Network access server (NAS)—edge network appliances, such as switches, access points, and VPN gateways. These are also referred to as _RADIUS clients_ or **authenticators**.
    
-   AAA server—the authentication server, positioned within the local network.
    

With AAA, the NAS devices do not have to store any authentication credentials. They forward this data between the AAA server and the supplicant. There are two main types of AAA server: RADIUS and TACACS+.