# Summarize Biometrics Authentication Concepts

> EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED  
> _2.4 Summarize authentication and authorization design concepts_

Biometric authentication mechanisms allow users to access an account through a physiological feature (fingerprint or iris pattern, for instance) or behavioral pattern. Being able to summarize the advantages and drawbacks of biometric mechanisms will allow you to support the deployment and use of these technologies.

  

#### BIOMETRIC AUTHENTICATION

The first step in setting up biometric authentication is enrollment. The chosen biometric information is scanned by a biometric reader and converted to binary information. There are generally two steps in the scanning process:

1.  A sensor module acquires the biometric sample from the target.
    
2.  A feature extraction module records the features in the sample that uniquely identify the target.
    

The biometric template is kept in the authentication server's database. When the user wants to access a resource, he or she is re-scanned, and the scan is compared to the template. If they match to within a defined degree of tolerance, access is granted.

Several pattern types can be used to identify people biometrically. These can be categorized as physical (fingerprint, eye, and facial recognition) or behavioral (voice, signature, and typing pattern matching). Key metrics and considerations used to evaluate the efficacy rate of biometric pattern acquisition and matching and suitability as an authentication mechanism include the following:

-   **False Rejection Rate (FRR)**—where a legitimate user is not recognized. This is also referred to as a Type I error or false non-match rate (FNMR). FRR is measured as a percentage.
    
-   **False Acceptance Rate (FAR)**—where an interloper is accepted (Type II error or false match rate \[FMR\]). FAR is measured as a percentage.
    

False rejection cause inconvenience to users, but false acceptance can lead to security breaches, and so is usually considered the most important metric.

-   **Crossover Error Rate (CER)**—the point at which FRR and FAR meet. The lower the CER, the more efficient and reliable the technology.

Errors are reduced over time by tuning the system. This is typically accomplished by adjusting the sensitivity of the system until CER is reached.

-   Throughput (speed)—the time required to create a template for each user and the time required to authenticate. This is a major consideration for high traffic access points, such as airports or railway stations.
    
-   Failure to Enroll Rate (FER)—incidents in which a template cannot be created and matched for a user during enrollment.
    
-   Cost/implementation—some scanner types are more expensive, whereas others are not easy to incorporate on mobile devices.
    
-   Users can find it intrusive and threatening to privacy.
    
-   The technology can be discriminatory or inaccessible to those with disabilities.