# THIRD-PARTY RISK MANAGEMENT

#### THIRD-PARTY RISK MANAGEMENT

A root of trust is only trustworthy if the vendor has implemented it properly. Hardware and firmware vulnerabilities and exploits demonstrate the necessity of third-party risk management. A supply chain is the end-to-end process of supplying, manufacturing, distributing, and finally releasing goods and services to a customer. For example, for a TPM to be trustworthy, the supply chain of chip manufacturers, firmware authors, OEM resellers, and administrative staff responsible for provisioning the computing device to the end user must all be trustworthy. Anyone with the time and resources to modify the computer's firmware could (in theory) create some sort of backdoor access. The same is true for any kind of computer or network hardware, right down to USB cables.

Establishing a trusted supply chain for computer equipment essentially means denying malicious actors the time or resources to modify the assets being supplied.

> _For most businesses, use of reputable OEMs will represent the best practical effort at securing the supply chain. Government, military/security services, and large enterprises will exercise greater scrutiny. Particular care should be taken if use is made of second-hand machines._

When assessing suppliers for risk, it is helpful to distinguish two types of relationship:

-   Vendor—this means a supplier of commodity goods and services, possibly with some level of customization and direct support.
  
-   Business partner—this implies a closer relationship where two companies share quite closely aligned goals and marketing opportunities.
  

For example, Microsoft is a major software vendor, but it is not feasible for it to establish direct relationships with all its potential customers. To expand its markets, it develops partner relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and solution providers. Microsoft operates a program of certification and training for its partners, which improves product support and security awareness.