# PATCH MANAGEMENT

#### PATCH MANAGEMENT

No operating system, software application, or firmware implementation is wholly free from vulnerabilities. As soon as a vulnerability is identified, vendors will try to correct it. At the same time, attackers will try to exploit it. Automated vulnerability scanners can be effective at discovering missing **patches** for the operating system, plus a wide range of third-party software apps and devices/firmware. Scanning is only useful if effective procedures are in-place to apply the missing patches, however.

On residential and small networks, hosts will be configured to auto-update, meaning that they check for and install patches automatically. The major OS and applications software products are well-supported in terms of vendor-supplied fixes for security issues. Enterprise networks need to be cautious about this sort of automated deployment, however, as a patch that is incompatible with an application or workflow can cause availability issues. There can also be performance and management issues when multiple applications run update clients on the same host. For example, as well as the OS updater, there is likely to be a security software update, browser updater, Java updater, OEM driver updater, and so on. These issues can be mitigated by deploying an enterprise **patch management** suite. Some suites, such as Microsoft’s System Center Configuration Manager (SCCM)/Endpoint Manager (docs.microsoft.com/en-us/mem/configmgr), are vendor-specific while others are designed to support third-party applications and multiple OSes.

It can also be difficult to schedule patch operations, especially if applying the patch is an availability risk to a critical system. If vulnerability assessments are continually highlighting issues with missing patches, patch management procedures should be upgraded. If the problem affects certain hosts only, it could be an indicator of compromise that should be investigated more closely.

Patch management can also be difficult for legacy systems, proprietary systems, and systems from vendors without robust security management plans, such as some types of Internet of Things devices. These systems will need compensating controls, or some other form of risk mitigation if patches are not readily available.