# ENDPOINT PROTECTION

#### ENDPOINT PROTECTION

Another crucial step in hardening is to configure endpoint protection for automatic detection and prevention of malware threats. There have been many iterations of host-based/endpoint protection suites and agents. It is important to consider the contrasting functions performed, as individual software tools or protection suites often combine multiple functionality.

**Antivirus (A-V)/Anti-Malware**  
The first generation of antivirus (A-V) software is characterized by signature-based detection and prevention of known viruses. An "A-V" product will now perform generalized malware detection, meaning not just viruses and worms, but also Trojans, spyware, PUPs, cryptojackers, and so on. While A-V software remains important, signature-based detection is widely recognized as being insufficient for the prevention of data breaches.

**Host-Based Intrusion Detection/Prevention (HIDS/HIPS)**  
Host-based intrusion detection systems (HIDS) provide threat detection via log and file system monitoring. HIDS come in many different forms with different capabilities, some of them preventative (HIPS). File system integrity monitoring uses signatures to detect whether a managed file image—such as an OS system file, driver, or application executable—has changed. Products may also monitor ports and network interfaces, and process data and logs generated by specific applications, such as HTTP or FTP.

**Endpoint Protection Platform (EPP)**  
Endpoint protection usually depends on an agent running on the local host. If multiple security products install multiple agents (say one for A-V, one for HIDS, another for host-based firewall, and so on), they can impact system performance and cause conflicts, creating numerous technical support incidents and security incident false positives. An endpoint protection platform (EPP) is a single agent performing multiple security tasks, including malware/intrusion detection and prevention, but also other security features, such as a host firewall, web content filtering/secure search and browsing, and file/message encryption.

**Data Loss Prevention (DLP)**  
Many EPPs include a data loss prevention (DLP) agent. This is configured with policies to identify privileged files and strings that should be kept private or confidential, such as credit card numbers. The agent enforces the policy to prevent data from being copied or attached to a message without authorization.

**Endpoint Protection Deployment**  
While specific products vary widely in terms of features and implementation detail, some generic tasks to implement endpoint protection include:

1.  Configure the management system to push the agent software and any updates to all desktops. This will require configuring permissions and firewall settings.
  
3.  Assign hosts to appropriate groups for policy assignment. For example, client endpoints have very different security requirements to servers. While it may be appropriate to use a preventative mechanism to immediately to isolate a client when a threat is detected, automatically doing this for a critical server could cascade to loss of functionality across the network.
  
5.  Test the different host group configuration settings to ensure that the expected range of threats is detected.
  
7.  Use a monitoring dashboard to verify status across all network hosts. Apart from detection events, if the agent is disabled or missing, there should be an alert.