# NEXT-GENERATION ENDPOINT PROTECTION

#### NEXT-GENERATION ENDPOINT PROTECTION

Where EPP provides mostly signature-based detection and prevention, next-generation endpoint protection with automated response is focused on logging of endpoint observables and indicators combined with behavioral- and anomaly-based analysis.

**Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR)**  
An **endpoint detection and response (EDR)** product's aim is not to prevent initial execution, but to provide real-time and historical visibility into the compromise, contain the malware within a single host, and facilitate remediation of the host to its original state. The term EDR was coined by Gartner security researcher Anton Chuvakin, and Gartner produces annual "Magic Quadrant" reports for both EPP (gartner.com/en/documents/3848470) and EDR functionality within security suites (gartner.com/en/documents/3894086/market-guide-for-endpoint-detection-and-response-solutio).

Where earlier endpoint protection suites report to an on-premises management server, next-generation endpoint agents are more likely to be managed from a cloud portal and use artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning to perform user and entity behavior analysis. These analysis resources would be part of the security service provider's offering.

> _Note that managed detection and response (MDR) is a class of hosted security service (digitalguardian.com/blog/what-managed-detection-and-response-definition-benefits-how-choose-vendor-and-more)._

**Next-Generation Firewall Integration**  
An analytics-driven next-gen antivirus product is likely to combine with the perimeter and zonal security offered by next-gen firewalls. For example, detecting a threat on an endpoint could automate a firewall policy to block the covert channel at the perimeter, isolate the endpoint, and mitigate risks of the malware using lateral movement between hosts. This type of functionality is set out in more detail in Sophos's white paper on synchronized security (sophos.com/en-us/lp/synchronized-security.aspx).