# ANTIVIRUS RESPONSE

#### ANTIVIRUS RESPONSE

An on-access antivirus scanner or intrusion prevention system works by identifying when processes or scripts are executed and intercepting (or hooking) the call to scan the code first. If the code matches a signature of known malware or exhibits malware-like behavior that matches a heuristic profile, the scanner will prevent execution and attempt to take the configured action on the host file (clean, quarantine, erase, and so on). An alert will be displayed to the user and the action will be logged (and also may generate an administrative alert). The malware will normally be tagged using a vendor proprietary string and possibly by a CME (Common Malware Enumeration) identifier. These identifiers can be used to research the symptoms of and methods used by the malware. This may help to confirm the system is fully remediated and to identify whether other systems have been infected. It is also important to trace the source of the infection and ensure that it is blocked to prevent repeat attacks and outbreaks.

**Advanced Malware Tools**  
Malware is often able to evade detection by automated scanners. Analysis of SIEM and intrusion detection logs might reveal suspicious network connections, or a user may observe unexplained activity or behavior on a host. When you identify symptoms such as these, but the AV scanner or EPP agent does not report an infection, you will need to analyze the host for malware using advanced tools.

There is a plethora of advanced analysis and detection utilities, but the starting point for most technicians is Sysinternals (docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals).

**Sandboxing**  
Sandboxing is a technique that isolates an untrusted host or app in a segregated environment to conduct tests. Sandbox environments intentionally limit interfaces with the host environment. The analysis of files sent to a sandbox can include determining whether the file is malicious, how it might have affected certain systems if run outside of the sandbox, and what dependencies it might have with external files and hosts. Sandboxes offer more than traditional anti-malware solutions because you can apply a variety of different environments to the sandbox instead of just relying on how the malware might exist in your current configuration.