# LOGIC CONTROLLERS FOR EMBEDDED SYSTEMS

#### LOGIC CONTROLLERS FOR EMBEDDED SYSTEMS

Embedded systems are normally based on firmware running on a **programmable logic controller (PLC)**. These PLCs are built from different hardware and OS components than some desktop PCs.

**System on Chip (SoC)**  
Desktop computer system architecture uses a generalized CPU plus various other processors and controllers and system memory, linked via the motherboard. **System on chip (SoC)** is a design where all these processors, controllers, and devices are provided on a single processor die (or chip). This type of packaging saves space and is usually power efficient, and so is very commonly used with embedded systems.

**Raspberry Pi** (raspberrypi.org) and **Arduino** (arduino.cc) are examples of SoC boards, initially devised as educational tools, but now widely used for industrial applications, and hacking.

**Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA)**  
A microcontroller is a processing unit that can perform sequential operations from a dedicated instruction set. The instruction set is determined by the vendor at the time of manufacture. Software running on the microcontroller has to be converted to these instructions (assembly language). As many embedded systems perform relatively simple but repetitive operations, it can be more efficient to design the hardware controller to perform only the instructions needed. One example of this is the application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) used in Ethernet switches. ASICs are expensive to design, however, and work only for a single application, such as Ethernet switching.

A **field programmable gate array (FPGA)** is a type of controller that solves this problem. The structure of the controller is not fully set at the time of manufacture. The end customer can configure the programming logic of the device to run a specific application.

**Real-Time Operating Systems (RTOS)**  
Many embedded systems operate devices that perform acutely time-sensitive tasks, such as drip meters or flow valves. The kernels or operating systems that run these devices must be much more stable and reliable than the OS that runs a desktop computer or server. Embedded systems typically cannot tolerate reboots or crashes and must have response times that are predictable to within microsecond tolerances. Consequently, these systems often use differently engineered platforms called **real-time operating systems (RTOS)**. An RTOS should be designed to have as small an attack surface as possible. An RTOS is still susceptible to CVEs and exploits, however.