# INDUSTRIAL CONTROL SYSTEMS

#### INDUSTRIAL CONTROL SYSTEMS

Industrial systems have different priorities to IT systems. Often, hazardous electromechanical components are involved, so safety is the overriding priority. Industrial processes also prioritize availability and integrity over confidentiality—reversing the CIA triad as the AIC triad.

**Workflow and Process Automation Systems**  
**Industrial control systems (ICSs)** provide mechanisms for workflow and process automation. These systems control machinery used in critical infrastructure, like power suppliers, water suppliers, health services, telecommunications, and national security services. An ICS that manages process automation within a single site is usually referred to as a distributed control system (DCS).

An ICS comprises plant devices and equipment with embedded PLCs. The PLCs are linked either by an OT fieldbus serial network or by industrial Ethernet to actuators that operate valves, motors, circuit breakers, and other mechanical components, plus sensors that monitor some local state, such as temperature. Output and configuration of a PLC is performed by one or more **human-machine interfaces (HMIs)**. An HMI might be a local control panel or software running on a computing host. PLCs are connected within a control loop, and the whole process automation system can be governed by a control server. Another important concept is the **data historian**, which is a database of all the information generated by the control loop.

**Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA)**  
A **supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA)** system takes the place of a control server in large-scale, multiple-site ICSs. SCADA typically run as software on ordinary computers, gathering data from and managing plant devices and equipment with embedded PLCs, referred to as field devices. SCADA typically use WAN communications, such as cellular or satellite, to link the SCADA server to field devices.

**ICS/SCADA Applications**  
These types of systems are used within many sectors of industry:

  
-   Energy refers to power generation and distribution. More widely, utilities includes water/sewage and transportation networks.
  
-   Industrial can refer specifically to the process of mining and refining raw materials, involving hazardous high heat and pressure furnaces, presses, centrifuges, pumps, and so on.
  
-   Fabrication and manufacturing refer to creating components and assembling them into products. Embedded systems are used to control automated production systems, such as forges, mills, and assembly lines. These systems must work to extremely high precisions.
  
-   Logistics refers to moving things from where they were made or assembled to where they need to be, either within a factory or for distribution to customers. Embedded technology is used in control of automated transport and lift systems plus sensors for component tracking.
  
-   Facilities refers to site and building management systems, typically operating automated heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC), lighting, and security systems.
  

ICS/SCADA was historically built without regard to IT security, though there is now high awareness of the necessity of enforcing security controls to protect them, especially when they operate in a networked environment.

> _One infamous example of an attack on an embedded system is the Stuxnet worm (wired.com/2014/11/countdown-to-zero-day-stuxnet). This was designed to attack the SCADA management software running on Windows PCs to damage the centrifuges used by Iran's nuclear fuels program. NIST Special Publication 800-82 covers some recommendations for implementing security controls for ICS and SCADA (nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-82r2.pdf)._