# SPECIALIZED SYSTEMS FOR FACILITY AUTOMATION

#### SPECIALIZED SYSTEMS FOR FACILITY AUTOMATION

A specialized system refers to the use of embedded systems and/or IoT devices for a specific purpose or application.

**Building Automation System (BAS)**  
A **building automation system (BAS)** for offices and data centers ("smart buildings") can include physical access control systems, but also heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC), fire control, power and lighting, and elevators and escalators. These subsystems are implemented by PLCs and various types of sensors that measure temperature, air pressure, humidity, room occupancy, and so on. Some typical vulnerabilities that affect these systems include:

  
-   Process and memory vulnerabilities, such as buffer overflow, in the PLCs. These may arise from processing maliciously crafted packets in the automation management protocol. Building automation uses dedicated network protocols, such as BACnet or Dynet.
  
-   Use of plaintext credentials or cryptographic keys within application code.
  
-   Code injection via the graphical web application interfaces used to configure and monitor systems. This can be used to perform JavaScript-based attacks, such as clickjacking and cross-site scripting (XSS).
  

It is possible that control of these systems could be used to perform some sort of DoS or ransom demand (consider disrupting HVAC controls within a data center, for instance). However, as with the Target data breach, the aim is likely to access the corporate data network from the automation and monitoring system, which may be accessible via a supplier company (krebsonsecurity.com/tag/fazio-mechanical).

**Smart Meters**  
A **smart meter** provides continually updating reports of electricity, gas, or water usage to the supplier, reducing the need for manual inspections. Most meters use cellular data for communication back to the supplier, and an IoT protocol, such as ZigBee, for integration with smart appliances.

**Surveillance Systems**  
A physical access control system (PACS) is a network of monitored locks, intruder alarms, and **video surveillance**. A PACS can either be implemented as part of a building automation system or a separate system in its own right. Gaining physical access to premises, or even just access to video monitoring systems, gives an adversary many opportunities to develop additional attacks. As with building automation, a PACS is likely to be installed and maintained by an external supplier. This can lead to it being omitted from risk and vulnerability assessments, as highlighted by the US Government Accountability Office's 2014 report into PACS at federal offices (gao.gov/assets/670/667512.pdf).

Physical security systems use networked camera systems (CCTV) for surveillance. Unfortunately, some makes of camera systems have been found to have numerous serious vulnerabilities that allow attackers either to prevent intrusions from being recorded or to hijack the cameras to perform their own surveillance. These issues tend to affect cheap consumer-grade systems rather than enterprise models, but in both cases it is necessary to evaluate the supplier to demonstrate that their security monitoring and remediation support services are effective.