# SPECIALIZED SYSTEMS FOR VEHICLES AND DRONES

#### SPECIALIZED SYSTEMS FOR VEHICLES AND DRONES

Automobiles and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV), or drones, contain sophisticated electronics to control engine and power systems, braking and landing, and suspension/stability. Modern vehicles are increasingly likely to have navigation and entertainment systems, plus driver-assist or even driverless features, where the vehicle's automated systems can take control of steering and braking. The locking, alarm, and engine immobilizer mechanisms are also likely to be part of the same system. Each of these subsystems is implemented as an electronic control unit (ECU), connected via one or more controller area network (CAN) serial communications buses. The principal external interface is an Onboard Diagnostics (OBD-II) module. The OBD-II also acts as a gateway for multiple CAN buses.

The **CAN bus** operates in a somewhat similar manner to shared Ethernet and was designed with just as little security. ECUs transmit messages as broadcast so they are received by all other ECUs on the same bus. There is no concept of source addressing or message authentication. An attacker able to attach a malicious device to the OBD-II port is able to perform DoS attacks against the CAN bus, threatening the safety of the vehicle. There are also remote means of accessing the CAN bus, such as via the cellular features of the automobile's navigation and entertainment system (wired.com/2015/07/hackers-remotely-kill-jeep-highway). Some vehicles also implement on-board Wi-Fi, further broadening the attack surface.

#### SPECIALIZED SYSTEMS FOR MEDICAL DEVICES

Medical devices represent an array of systems potentially vulnerable to a wide range of attacks. It is important to recognize that use of these devices is not confined to hospitals and clinics but includes portable devices such as cardiac monitors/defibrillators and insulin pumps. As well as unsecure communication protocols, many of the control systems for these devices run on unsupported versions of operating systems (such as Windows XP) because the costs of updating the software to work with newer OS versions is high and disruptive to patient services. Some of the goals of attacks on medical devices and services are as follows:

-   Use compromised devices to pivot to networks storing medical data with the aim of stealing protected health information (PHI).
  
-   Hold medical units ransom by threatening to disrupt services.
  
-   Kill or injure patients (or threaten to do so) by tampering with dosage levels or device settings.