# SECURITY FOR EMBEDDED SYSTEMS

#### SECURITY FOR EMBEDDED SYSTEMS

Embedded systems must not be overlooked when designing the security system. The following methods can be used to mitigate risk in such environments.

**Network Segmentation**  
Network segmentation is one of the core principles of network security. Network access for static environments should only be required for applying firmware updates and management controls from the host software to the devices and for reporting status and diagnostic information from the devices back to the host software. This control network should be separated from the corporate network using firewalls and VLANs.

With environments such as SCADA, the management software may require legacy versions of operating systems, making the hosts particularly difficult to secure. Isolating these hosts from others through network segmentation and using endpoint security (preventing the attachment of USB devices) can help to ensure they do not become infected with malware or exposed to network exploits.

**Wrappers**  
One way of increasing the security of data in transit for embedded systems is through the use of wrappers, such as IPSec. The only thing visible to an attacker or anyone sniffing the wire is the IPSec header, which describes only the tunnel endpoints. This is useful for protecting traffic between trusted networks when the traffic has to go through an untrusted network to go between them, or between trusted nodes on the same network.

**Firmware Code Control and Inability to Patch**  
Embedded systems demonstrate one of the reasons that supply chain risks must be carefully managed. Programming logic implemented in FPGA and firmware code must not contain backdoors. Firmware patching is just as vital as keeping host OS software up to date, but for many embedded systems, it is far more of a challenge:

-   Many embedded systems and IoT devices use low-cost firmware chips and the vendor never produces updates to fix security problems or only produces updates for a relatively short product cycle (while the device could remain in operational use for much longer).
  
-   Many embedded systems require manual updates, which are perceived as too time-consuming for a security department with other priorities to perform.
  
-   Availability is a key attribute for most embedded deployments. Patching without service interruption may not be possible, and opportunities for downtime servicing extremely limited.
  

> _Cisco Live presents a useful overview of embedded system security requirements (ciscolive.com/c/dam/r/ciscolive/us/docs/2018/pdf/BRKIOT-2115.pdf)._