# NULL POINTER DEREFERENCING AND RACE CONDITIONS

#### NULL POINTER DEREFERENCING AND RACE CONDITIONS

In C/C++ programming, a pointer is a variable that stores a memory location, rather than a value. Attempting to read or write that memory address via the pointer is called dereferencing. If the memory location is invalid or null (perhaps by some malicious process altering the execution environment), this creates a null **pointer dereference** type of exception, and the process will crash, probably. In some circumstances, this might also allow a threat actor to run arbitrary code. Programmers can use logic statements to test that a pointer is not null before trying to use it.

A race condition is one means of engineering a null pointer dereference exception. **Race conditions** occur when the outcome from an execution process is directly dependent on the order and timing of certain events, and those events fail to execute in the order and timing intended by the developer. In 2016, the Linux kernel was discovered to have an exploitable race condition vulnerability, known as Dirty COW (theregister.com/2016/10/21/linux\_privilege\_escalation\_hole).

Race condition attacks can also be directed at databases and file systems. A **time of check to time of use (TOCTTOU)** race condition occurs when there is a change between when an app checked a resource and when the app used the resource. This change invalidates the check. An attacker that can identify a TOCTTOU vulnerability will attempt to manipulate data after it has been checked but before the application can use this data to perform some operation. For example, if an application creates a temporary file to store a value for later use, and an attacker can replace or delete this file between the time it is created and the time it is used, then the attacker is exploiting a TOCTTOU vulnerability.