# APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE ATTACKS

#### APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE ATTACKS

Web applications and cloud services implement application program interfaces (APIs) to allow consumers to automate services. An API call might use the following general URL format:

```Markdown
https://webapp.foo/?Action=RunInstance&Id=123&Count=1&InstanceAccessKey= MyInstanceAccessKey&Placement=us-east&MyAuthorizationToken
``` 

If the API isn't secure, threat actors can easily take advantage of it to compromise the services and data stored on the web application. An API must only be used over an encrypted channel (HTTPS). API calls over plain HTTP are not secure and could easily be impersonated or modified by a third party. Some other common attacks against APIs target the following weaknesses and vulnerabilities:

  
-   Ineffective secrets management, allowing threat actors to discover an API key and perform any action authorized to that key.
  
-   Lack of input validation, allowing the threat actor to insert arbitrary parameters into API methods and queries. This is often referred to as allowing unsanitized input.
  
-   Error messages revealing clues to a potential adversary. For example, an authentication error should not reveal whether a valid username has been rejected because of an invalid password. The error should simply indicate an authentication failure.
  
-   Denial of service (DoS) by bombarding the API with spurious calls. Protection against this attack can be provided through throttling/rate-limiting mechanisms.