# STRUCTURED QUERY LANGUAGE INJECTION ATTACKS

#### STRUCTURED QUERY LANGUAGE INJECTION ATTACKS

Attacks such as session replay, CSRF, and DOM-based XSS are client-side attacks. This means that they execute arbitrary code on the browser. A **server-side** attack causes the server to do some processing or run a script or query in a way that is not authorized by the application design. Most server-side attacks depend on some kind of injection attack.

Where an overflow attack works against the way a process performs memory management, an injection attack exploits some unsecure way in which the application processes requests and queries. For example, an application might allow a user to view his or her profile with a database query that should return the single record for that one user's profile. An application vulnerable to an injection attack might allow a threat actor to return the records for all users, or to change fields in the record when they are only supposed to be able to read them.

A web application is likely to use **Structured Query Language (SQL)** to read and write information from a database. The main database operations are performed by SQL statements for selecting data (SELECT), inserting data (INSERT), deleting data (DELETE), and updating data (UPDATE). In a **SQL injection** attack, the threat actor modifies one or more of these four basic functions by adding code to some input accepted by the app, causing it to execute the attacker's own set of SQL queries or parameters. If successful, this could allow the attacker to extract or insert information into the database or execute arbitrary code on the remote system using the same privileges as the database application (owasp.org/www-community/attacks/SQL\_Injection).

For example, consider a web form that is supposed to take a name as input. If the user enters "Bob", the application runs the following query:

```PHP
SELECT * FROM tbl_user WHERE username = 'Bob'
``` 

If a threat actor enters the string **' or 1=1--** and this input is not sanitized, the following malicious query will be executed:

- ```PHP
SELECT * FROM tbl_user WHERE username = '' or 1=1--#
``` 

The logical statement 1=1 is always true, and the --# string turns the rest of the statement into a comment, making it more likely that the web application will parse this modified version and dump a list of all users.