# SECURE CODE USAGE

#### SECURE CODE USAGE

Developing code to perform some function is hard work, so developers will often look to see if someone else has done that work already. A program may make use of existing code in the following ways:

  
-   **Code reuse**—using a block of code from elsewhere in the same application or from another application to perform a different function (or perform the same function in a different context). The risk here is that the copy and paste approach causes the developer to overlook potential vulnerabilities (perhaps the function's input parameters are no longer validated in the new context).
  
-   **Third-party library**—using a binary package (such as a dynamic link library) that implements some sort of standard functionality, such as establishing a network connection or performing cryptography. Each library must be monitored for vulnerabilities and patched promptly.
  
-   **Software development kit (SDK)**—using sample code or libraries of pre-built functions from the programming environment used to create the software or interact with a third party API. As with other third party libraries or code, it is imperative to monitor for vulnerabilities.
  
-   **Stored procedures**—using a pre-built function to perform a database query. A stored procedure is a part of a database that executes a custom query. The procedure is supplied an input by the calling program and returns a predefined output for matched records. This can provide a more secure means of querying the database. Any stored procedures that are part of the database but not required by the application should be disabled.
  

#### OTHER SECURE CODING PRACTICES

Input and error handling plus secure reuse of existing code cover some of the main security-related development practices that you should be aware of. There are a few other issues that can arise during the development and deployment of application code.

**Unreachable Code and Dead Code**  
Unreachable code is a part of application source code that can never be executed. For example, there may be a routine within a logic statement (If ... Then) that can never be called because the conditions that would call it can never be met. **Dead code** is executed but has no effect on the program flow. For example, there may be code to perform a calculation, but the result is never stored as a variable or used to evaluate a condition.

This type of code may be introduced through carelessly reused code, or when a block of code is rewritten or changed. Unreachable and dead code should be removed from the application to forestall the possibility that it could be misused in some way. The presence of unreachable/dead code can indicate that the application is not being well maintained.

**Obfuscation/Camouflage**  
It is important that code be well-documented, to assist the efforts of multiple programmers working on the same project. Well-documented code is also easier to analyze, however, which may assist the development of attacks. Code can be made difficult to analyze by using an obfuscator, which is software that randomizes the names of variables, constants, functions, and procedures, removes comments and white space, and performs other operations to make the **compiled code** physically and mentally difficult to read and follow. This sort of technique might be used to make reverse engineering an application more difficult and as a way of disguising malware code.