# PYTHON SCRIPT ENVIRONMENT

#### PYTHON SCRIPT ENVIRONMENT

**Python** is a popular language for implementing all kinds of development projects, including automation tools and security tools, as well as malicious scripts (python.org). Where many languages use brackets to denote blocks of code, Python uses indentation (4 spaces per level, by convention). Any statement that starts a block is delimited by a colon. Python is case-sensitive; for example, the variable user cannot be referred to by the label User or USER. Comment lines are marked by the # character. You can view inline help on modules, functions, and keywords using the help statement. For example, the following command shows help for the print function: help(print)

**Variables**  
Python uses the = operator to assign a name to a variable. Names are not declared with a data type, such as string or integer, but Python is strongly typed, meaning that you cannot add an integer variable to a string variable, for instance. String literals can be delimited using single or double quotes.

**Functions**  
Functions are used to produce modular, reusable code. A function takes some arguments as parameters, performs some processing, and typically returns some output. When creating a script, you will use some functions from Python's modules and define your own functions. A function is defined using the following indentation syntax:

```Python
def fullname(name,surname):
   return name + " " + surname

#This ends the function definition
#The next line calls the function to set a variable
greeting = 'Hello ' + fullname('World', '')
print(greeting)
``` 

**Logic and Looping Statements**  
Branching and looping statements let you test conditions and perform repetitive actions using compact code. Python uses the following comparison operators:

Operator | Operation
----- | ------
\== | Is equal to
!= | Is not equal to
< | Is less than
\> | Is greater than
<= | Is less than or equal to
\>= | Is greater than or equal to
  

A control block is written with indentation in the following general form:

```Python
if name == 'World':
   #These indented statements are only executed if the condition is true
   print('Enter your first name')
   name = input()
   print('Enter your surname')
   surname = input()

#This ends the if statement as the next line is not indented
greeting = 'Hello ' + fullname(name,surname)
``` 

Python uses only if for branching logic, though complex nested conditions can be simplified with else and elif (else if). Loops can be constructed using for and while.

**Modules**  
A Python module is a library of functions for accomplishing standard tasks, such as opening a network socket or interacting with an operating system's API. One of the perceived strengths of Python is the huge number of modules. For example, the os module contains functions to interact with the operating system, while the socket module handles network connections and the url module opens and parses resource addresses. Various extension modules allow a Python script to interact with Windows APIs.

> _The presence of two malicious libraries within a Python repository illustrates the potential risks of third-party code (https://www.zdnet.com/article/two-malicious-python-libraries-removed-from-pypi/)._

**Execution**  
Python is an interpreted language, executed within the context of a binary Python process. In Windows, a Python script (.py) can be called via python.exe (with a command window) or pythonw.exe (with no command window). A Python script can also be compiled to a standalone Windows executable using the py2exe extension. This executable can be digitally signed.