# MALICIOUS CODE INDICATORS

#### MALICIOUS CODE INDICATORS

As with buffer overflow, indicators of malicious code execution are either caught by endpoint protection software or discovered after the fact in logs of how the malware interacted with the network, file system, and registry. If you are performing threat hunting or observing malware in a sandbox, it is helpful to consider the main types of malicious activity:

  
-   Shellcode—this is a minimal program designed to exploit a buffer overflow or similar vulnerability to gain privileges, or to drop a backdoor on the host if run as a Trojan (attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0002). Having gained a foothold, this type of attack will be followed by some type of network connection to download additional tools.
  
-   Credential dumping—the malware might try to access the credentials file (SAM on a local Windows workstation) or sniff credentials held in memory by the lsass.exe system process (attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0006).
  
-   Lateral movement/insider attack—the general procedure is to use the foothold to execute a process remotely, using a tool such as psexec (docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/psexec) or PowerShell (attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0008). The attacker might be seeking data assets or may try to widen access by changing the system security configuration, such as opening a firewall port or creating an account. If the attacker has compromised an account, these commands can blend in with ordinary network operations, though they could be anomalous behavior for that account.
  
-   Persistence—this is a mechanism that allows the threat actor's backdoor to restart if the host reboots or the user logs off (attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0003). Typical methods are to use AutoRun keys in the registry, adding a scheduled task, or using Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) event subscriptions.