# SOFTWARE DIVERSITY

#### SOFTWARE DIVERSITY

An application's runtime environment will use one of two approaches for execution on a host system:

  
-   Compiled code is converted to binary machine language that can run independently on the target OS.
  
-   Interpreted code is packaged pretty much as is but is compiled line-by-line by an interpreter, such as PowerShell or JavaScript. This offers a solution that is platform independent because the interpreter resolves the differences between OS types and versions.
  

Software diversity can refer to obfuscation techniques to make code difficult to detect as malicious. This is widely used by threat actors in the form of shellcode compilers to avoid signature detection, such as the venerable Shikata Ga Nai (fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2019/10/shikata-ga-nai-encoder-still-going-strong.html). This can be used as a defensive technique. Obfuscating API methods and automation code makes it harder for a threat actor to reverse engineer and analyze the code to discover weaknesses.

There is also general research interest in security by diversity. This works on the principle that attacks are harder to develop against nonstandard environments. A monoculture environment, such as a Windows domain network, presents a fairly predictable attack surface with plenty of commodity malware tools available to exploit misconfigurations. Using a wide range of development tools and OS/application vendors and versions can make attack strategies harder to research. As with security by obscurity, this will not defeat a targeted attack, but it can partially mitigate risks from less motivated threat actors, who will simply move to the next, easier target. On the other hand, this sort of complexity will tend to lead to greater incidence of configuration errors as technicians and developers struggle to master unfamiliar technologies.