# Create and Edit Text Files

> **EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED**
> 
> _2.3 Given a scenario, create, modify, and redirect files._

Although you did some basic file creation and editing tasks earlier, it's time for you to become more familiar with text-based tools like Vim and GNU nano. Being able to create and edit files is a critical skill in Linux, as so much of what you configure on the system is done through text files.

#### Text Editors

A **_text editor_** is an application that enables you to view, create, or modify the contents of text files. Text editors were originally created to write programs in source code, but are now used to edit a wide variety of text-based files. Various types of text editors are compatible with Linux. However, text editors do not always support the formatting options that word processors provide. Text editors may work either in the CLI or GUI, and may have different modes of operation.

Text editors are important because, in Linux, most configuration components are text files: system configuration, network configuration, kernel configuration, shell environment configuration, etc. In the CLI, you'll be configuring most of these components by opening the relevant files in a text editor and adjusting some lines of text. So, being comfortable with a text editor is essential.

#### Common Editors

Many text editors are compatible with Linux. The following table lists some of the most common ones.

Text Editor | Description
------ | ------
vi | A visual text editor that was originally created for Unix, and was later cloned into FOSS versions.
Vim | The default text editor in most Linux distributions.
Emacs | A flexible, powerful, and popular text editor used in Linux and Unix.
gVim | The graphical version of the Vim editor.
gedit | A simple yet powerful GUI-based text editor used in the GNOME desktop environment.
GNU nano | A small, user-friendly text editor.