# Motions

#### Motions

Motions are single-key shortcuts that are used to navigate through files in command mode. These keys position the cursor anywhere within a document. They can be used for moving the cursor through characters, words, lines, or even huge blocks of text.

Navigation Key | Used To
------- | -------
h | Move left one character.
j | Move down one line.
k | Move up one line.
l | Move right one character.
^ | Move to the beginning of the current line.
$ | Move to the end of the current line.
w | Move to the next word.
b | Move to the previous word.
e | Move to the end of the current word or to the end of the next word if you are already at the end of the word.
Shift+L | Move the cursor to the bottom of the screen.
Shift+H | Move the cursor to the first line of the screen.
(Line number) Shift+G | Move the cursor to the specified line number.
gg | Move the cursor to the first line of the file.
Shift+G | Move the cursor to the last line of the file.

**_NAVIGATION USING THE ARROW KEYS_**  
In addition to using the **h, j, k,** and **l** keys to navigate through the editor, you can also use the **Up, Down, Left,** and **Right Arrow** keys. The conventional navigation keys such as **Home, End, Page Up,** and **Page Down** also work in Vim.

#### Editing Operators

**_Editing operators_** in command mode are powerful tools that can be used to manipulate text with simple keystrokes. They can also be used in combination with motions to edit multiple characters.

Some of the frequently used editing operators are listed here.

Editing Operator | Used To
------- | -------
x | Delete the character selected by the cursor.
d | Delete text.
dd | Delete the current line.
p | Paste text on the line directly below the cursor.
P | Paste text on the line directly above the cursor.
/{text string} | Search through the document for specific text.
?{text string} | Search backward through the document for specific text.
y | Copy text.
yy | Copy the line directly above the cursor.
c{range of lines}c | Begin a change in the specified range.
u | Undo the latest change.
U | Undo all changes in the current line.
ZZ | Write the file only if changes were made, then quit the Vim editor.

  
**_COUNTS_**  
A count is a number that multiplies the effect of keystrokes in Vim. It can be used in combination with motions, operators, or both. When used with a motion, cursor movement is multiplied according to the count specified. When used with editing operators, the action gets repeated the number of times specified.

The syntax for using a count with an operator and a motion is 
```Vim
operator [count] {motion}
```