# nano SHORTCUTS

#### nano SHORTCUTS

In GNU nano, the functions you use to work with text files and the editor itself are referred to as shortcuts. You activate most shortcuts by pressing the **Ctrl** key (represented as ^ in the editor) and then pressing the key that corresponds to the function you're trying to perform.

The following table lists some of the common nano shortcuts.

Shortcut | Used To
----- | -----
Ctrl+G | Open nano to the help screen.
Ctrl+X | Exit nano or close the current "buffer" (e.g., the help screen itself).
Ctrl+O | Save the currently open file.
Ctrl+J | Justify the current paragraph.
Ctrl+R | Insert another file into the current one.
Ctrl+W | Search the file.
Ctrl+K | Cut the currently selected line.
Ctrl+U | Paste the line that was cut.
Ctrl+C | Display the cursor's position.

  

> _Note: Despite the fact that the shortcuts are presented in uppercase, you shouldn't use the **Shift** key, only the **Ctrl** key._

**_NAVIGATION_**  
Like other text editors, you can navigate in nano using the arrow keys, **Page Up, Page Down, Home,** etc. If you are missing these keys, nano also provides shortcuts for them, e.g., **Ctrl+V** to navigate to the next page and **Ctrl+Y** to navigate to the previous page.

**_COPYING TEXT_**  
Copying parts of text on a line requires you to "mark" the text you want to copy with the **Ctrl+^** shortcut. You then navigate your cursor to highlight the text you want to copy. Pressing **Alt+^** copies the marked/highlighted text, and **Ctrl+U** pastes it.