# THE cp, mv and touch COMMAND

#### THE cp COMMAND

The cp command enables you to copy and then paste a file or directory. The initial object is left where it is, but an exact duplicate of that object is created at the destination you specify. When you copy directories, you must specify the -R option to copy the specified directory recursively.

**_SYNTAX_**  
The syntax of the cp command is 
```Shell
cp [options] {file/directory name to copy} {file/directory name destination}
```

For example, to copy the `~/myfiles` directory and its contents to `/opt/myfiles`:

```Shell
cp -R ~/myfiles /opt/myfiles
``` 

#### THE mv COMMAND

The mv command moves files and directories to other locations. It is similar to the `cp` command, but does not leave the initial object in place. Therefore, `mv` is more like a cut and paste operation.

The Bash shell does not have a dedicated rename command, but instead uses mv to accomplish that function. The act of "moving" a file or directory and supplying a new name as the destination essentially renames that object.

**_SYNTAX_**  
The syntax of the mv command is 
```Shell
mv [options] {file/directory name to move} {file/directory name destination}
```

For example, to move `~/file1` to `/opt/file1`:

```Shell
mv ~/file1 /opt/mylist
``` 

For renaming purposes, the syntax is 
```Shell
mv [options] {old file/directory name} {new file/directory name}
```

#### THE touch COMMAND

The touch command changes the time of access or modification time of a file to the current time, or to the time specified in an argument. It is also used to create an empty file with the specified file name, assuming the file does not exist. This is often useful in testing permissions or in simply creating files that will later be processed by some application.

**_SYNTAX_**  
The syntax of the touch command is 
```Shell
touch {file names}
```