# THE rm, ls, mkdir and mkdir COMMAND

#### THE rm COMMAND

The rm command removes files and directories. You must use the -R option to recursively remove files, subdirectories, and the parent directory itself.

**_SYNTAX_**  
The syntax of the rm command is 
```Shell
rm [options] {file/directory names}
```

For example, to remove the `~/myfiles` directory and its contents:

```Shell
rm -R ~/myfiles
``` 

**_THE unlink COMMAND_**  
The unlink command is similar to the rm command, but can only remove one file at a time and cannot remove directories.

#### THE ls COMMAND

At this point, you've seen much of the power of the `ls` command to list the contents of directories, as well as the permissions information of directories and files. The following table summarizes some of the most useful options that are available with the ls command.

Option | Used To
----- | -----
\-l | Display a long list including the permissions, number of hard links, owner, group, size, date, and file name.
\-F | Display the nature of a file, such as \* for an executable file and / for a directory.
\-a | Display all files present in the directory, including the files whose names begin with a period ( . ).
\-R | Recursively display all subdirectories.
\-d | Display information about symbolic links or directories rather than the link's target or the contents of the directory.
\-L | Display all files in a directory, including symbolic links.

  
**_SYNTAX_**  
The syntax of the ls command is `ls [options] [file/directory names]`

**_ls COLORS_**  
In the Bash shell, when you execute the ls command, you may have noticed that the results sometimes appear in different colors. These colors distinguish different types of files. By default, some of the colors are:

-   Default color: Normal/text file
-   Blue: Directory
-   Sky blue: Symbolic link or audio file
-   Green: Executable file
-   Yellow with black background: Device
-   Pink: Image file
-   Red: Archive file
-   Red with black background: Broken link

#### THE mkdir AND rmdir COMMANDS

The mkdir command is used to create (or make) a directory. You supply the name of the directory as an argument. The rmdir directory is used to remove directories, but only those that are empty (i.e., contain no files or subdirectories). In order to delete a directory with actual contents, you must use the `rm -R` command.

**_SYNTAX_**  
The syntax of the `mkdir` and `rmdir` commands is 
```Shell
mkdir/rmdir {directory names}
```