# Types of Links

#### Types of Links

Using the `ln` command, you can create two types of links: hard and symbolic (soft). Hard and symbolic links are a feature of the file system and are common in most file systems supported by Linux. The ext2, ext3, ext4, and XFS file systems all support hard and symbolic links.

A **_hard link_** is a reference to another file; it enables the file's data to have more than one name in different locations in the same file system. Applications treat a hard link as a real file. If the original file is deleted after a hard link is created, all its contents will still be available in the linked file. This is because the inode of a hard link is the same as its target; in other words, it points to the same object on the file system. Hard links cannot be created between two directories, nor can they be created between two files in different file systems.

A **_symbolic link_** is a reference to a file or directory that can span multiple file systems. If the original file or directory is deleted after a symbolic link is created, then the original content is lost. This is because the inode of a symbolic link is different than its target; in other words, it points to a different object on the file system. A symbolic link is also known as a soft link.

**_EXAMPLES_**  
The following is an example of creating a hard link using the ln command, where `/backup/backup-report` is the target of the link, and `~/backup-report` is the link itself:

```Shell
ln /backup/backup-report ~/backup-report
``` 

The following is an example of the same, but creating a symbolic link instead of a hard link:

```Shell
ln -s /backup/backup-report ~/backup-report
```