# Manipulate File Output

> **EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED**
> 
> _2.3 Given a scenario, create, modify, and redirect files._

All of this management and manipulation of files is useful for more than just looking at the results in a terminal. When you continue to use the terminal, or log out entirely, you'll want to ensure that some crucial information is stored in a file for later retrieval and analysis. You'll also benefit from using multiple commands in conjunction, making your administrative duties more efficient and powerful.

#### Text Streams

A **_text stream_** is a sequence of one or more lines of text that applications can leverage to read from or write to a particular device or system component. This enables the application to interface with components like the CLI, files, network sockets, and more, while hiding those components' details from the application.

In most Linux shells, there are three types of streams: standard input, standard output, and standard error.

#### Standard Input

**_Standard input_**, or **_stdin_**, is a text stream that acts as the source for command input. Standard input for the Linux command-line is usually generated from the keyboard. In the case of the GUI, the standard input can also come from the mouse.

#### Standard Output

**_Standard output_**, or **_stdout_**, is a text stream that acts as the destination for command output. By default, standard output from a Linux command is directed to the CLI.

#### Standard Error

**_Standard error_**, or **_stderr_**, is a text stream that is used as the destination for error messages. By default, the standard error stream prints error messages at the CLI.