# Input/Output Redirection and Redirection Operators

#### Input/Output Redirection

**_Redirection_** is the process of accepting input data from a source other than the keyboard and sending output data to a destination other than the display device. In other words, you can use redirection to bypass the default devices when working with input/output (I/O). Redirection is commonly used to accept input from files or send output to files using the stdin, stdout, and stderr streams.

#### Redirection Operators

There are several operators that are used to redirect input or output. These operators are described in the following table.

Operator | Used To | Example
---- | ---- | ----
\> | Redirect the standard output to a file. | `ls > file1.txt`  The output of the ls command will be redirected to a file namedfile1.txt.
\>> | Append the standard output to the end of the destination file. | `ls >> file1.txt`  The output of the ls command will be appended to a file namedfile1.txt.
2> | Redirect the standard error message to a file. | `ls file3.txt 2> errorfile.txt` Assuming that file3.txt does not exist, the resulting errors will not be displayed on the screen, but they will be redirected to a file named errorfile.txt.
2>> | Append the standard error message to the end of the destination file. | `ls file3.txt 2>> errorfile.txt`  Assuming that file3.txt does not exist, the resulting errors will not be displayed on the screen, but they will be appended to a file namederrorfile.txt.
&> | Redirect both the standard output and the standard error message to a file. | `ls file1.txt file3.txt &> errorfile.txt`  Assuming that file1.txt exists and file3.txt does not, the resulting output and errors will not be displayed on the screen, but they will be redirected to a file namederrorfile.txt.
< | Read the input from a file rather than from the keyboard or mouse. | `mail user@address < myletter.txt`  The myletter.txt file will be taken as the input and attached to the email message.
<<string | Provide input data from the current source, stopping when a line containing the provided string occurs. When placed in a script, this is called a here document.| `cat <<EOF` This is a here document. EOF  The cat command will use the rest of the lines in this file as input. It will stop accepting that input when it reaches the string EOF. This string can be named anything you want. The output of the cat command would therefore be:  This is a here document.