# SCSI, HBA, And PCI

#### SCSI

**_Small Computer System Interface (SCSI)_** is a computer bus interface for connecting peripheral devices to traditional computers. Whereas SATA is primarily used for attaching storage devices, SCSI can be used to attach other types of devices as well, such as DVD-ROM drives, printers, scanners, etc. However, its application in storage is much more common.

Traditionally, SCSI uses a parallel interface, which tends to cost more to manufacturer than a serial interface. However, in the past, SCSI provided high transfer rates and therefore became popular in enterprise storage arrays where speed was important. The **_Serial Attached SCSI (SAS)_** standard was developed to apply a serial interface to SCSI technology. SAS offers greater speeds than traditional SCSI—up to 24 Gb/s in the recent SAS-4—and supports higher-capacity drives. The serial interface also supports a more reliable data transfer rate. SAS has become the go-to technology for many enterprise storage environments.

#### HBA

A **_host bus adapter (HBA)_** is a hardware component that connects a host system to a storage device, like in a storage area network (SAN), in order to facilitate the input and output of data. They are to storage devices what network adapters are to networks. HBAs are commonly used with interface technologies like SATA and SCSI. The HBA might be built into the motherboard, or it might be a separate expansion card that attaches to the motherboard. In either case, you connect a storage device to an HBA with the requisite interface in order for the system to work with that storage device.

#### PCI

**_Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI)_** is a connection interface standard that is primarily used as an expansion bus for attaching peripheral devices. The initial PCI specification has been largely superseded by the more recent **_PCI Express (PCIe)_**. PCIe supports greater transfer speeds, more reliable error detection, and is physically smaller than traditional PCI. In modern computers, PCIe is the dominant expansion bus technology.

When it comes to non-storage devices, there are many applications of PCIe. It's common for video cards to connect using this interface, as well as expansion cards that add more ports like USB and SATA for the system to use. In more recent years, PCIe has been used to connect SSDs that leverage the Non-Volatile Memory Express (NVMe) interface, which is specifically designed for integration with PCIe. NVMe SSDs are even faster than SSDs connected over SATA and SAS; they will likely become a prominent force in enterprise storage.