# Configure Devices

> **EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED**
> 
> _2.7 Explain the use and operation of Linux devices._

Now you're ready to use Linux tools to configure devices. In this topic, you'll use some common services that enable you to customize how the system interacts with certain hardware.

#### Device File Locations

Device files represent information about hardware devices, and in some cases, define settings about those devices that you can customize. These files are located in several different directories and subdirectories, many of which you've seen before.

Location | Description
----- | --------
/proc/ | Contains various files that represent system information reported by the kernel. In particular, the /proc/devices file contains a list of all device drivers that the kernel is currently running, separated by character and block storage devices.
/sys/ | A virtual file system similar to /proc/ but that focuses more on creating a hierarchical view of device information. In particular, the /sys/devices/ subdirectory includes files that expose details about specific devices.
/dev/ | Contains device driver files that enable the system and users to access devices themselves. For example, you can mount a block storage device by referencing it from /dev/, like /dev/sda1. Likewise, /dev/mapper/ contains logical volumes, encrypted volumes, and other devices that are managed by device mapper.
/etc/ | Includes configuration files for many components, including components that interface with devices. For example, the /etc/X11/ subdirectory contains configuration files for input and output devices that might impact the X.Org Server environment, such as keyboards, mice, and monitors.

  

#### Hotpluggable Devices

A **_hotpluggable device_** can be physically added or removed from the system without requiring a reboot in order to use that device. Hotpluggable devices are detected by the system as they are plugged in, whereas coldpluggable devices, such as RAM modules, CPUs, and some internal storage devices, are not sensed when connected to a running system; they need a complete reboot of the system to function. In fact, for internal devices like RAM modules, it is highly recommended that the system is powered off before attempting to plug the device in.

Modern Linux distributions support hotplugging for many standard bus types, particular for USB, FireWire, SATA, and other related technologies. Even expansion bus technology like PCIe can support hotplugging.