# Troubleshoot Hardware Issues

> **EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED**
> 
> _2.7 Explain the use and operation of Linux devices.  
> 4.4 Given a scenario, analyze and troubleshoot application and hardware issues._

As you might expect, hardware devices are just as susceptible to problems as any other Linux component. In this topic, you'll look at some of the common symptoms that indicate device issues, as well as some suggested solutions for dealing with those issues.

#### Common Hardware Issues

Problems can affect a wide array of different hardware devices. Missing or poorly configured drivers are a common source of these problems, as is user space software that is incompatible with certain hardware. However, there are many other potential sources. Likewise, there may be many potential solutions that differ based on the type of component you're troubleshooting. In general, hardware issues can be categorized as follows:

-   Keyboard mapping issues.
-   Communications port issues.
-   Printer issues.
-   Memory issues.
-   Video issues.
-   Storage adapter issues.

#### Keyboard Mapping Issues

Certain keyboard keys, when pressed, may produce an unexpected character on the screen, or no character at all. This is the most common and overt symptom of a keyboard mapping issue. The most likely cause of these issues is that the system has configured the wrong keyboard layout and/or the wrong language.

To address the problem, make sure you can correctly identify the layout of the physical keyboard—not just its overall design type (e.g., QWERTY vs. Dvorak), but its specific regional layout. Even standard QWERTY keyboards designed with the same language in mind don't always have the same layout; for example, American English keyboards contain keys in different spots than British English keyboards. Once you've identified the physical layout of your keyboard, use `localectl status` to verify the layout that the system is using. If it's not correct, list the available keymaps, identify the correct one, then set it on the system. You may also need to adjust the system language to ensure one-to-one accuracy.

**_ADDRESSING ISSUES WITH A REMOTE TERMINAL_**  

If you are accessing a Linux system remotely, your remote terminal client may have some options for addressing keyboard mapping issues. SSH clients like PuTTY enable you to change the effects that certain keystrokes have on the environment. For example, you can configure the **_Backspace_** character to move one character to the left without deleting the character. This can be helpful in certain applications that don't handle the default behavior well.

#### Communications Port Issues

Communications ports, like USB, may fail to recognize an attached device, or the connection to that device may be unreliable. Your first step should be to ensure that the device is correctly slotted into the port, and that any physical cables are not loose or damaged. Also make sure that power is being supplied to the bus adapter. If this doesn't fix the issue, then ensure that any necessary drivers are installed and loaded into the kernel, depending on the type of interface you're using. Also ensure your device supports the correct version of the bus interface. For example, each version of USB has a maximum data throughput value, and older versions may not meet your performance expectations.

Certain devices, when connected to a serial port, will request a console interface with the Linux operating system. Linux will typically assign the port an interface at `/dev/ttyS# where #` is the number of the console (starting with 0). In some cases, you may need to ensure that the connected device is configured to automatically use one of these consoles. Also, by default, only the root user is granted access to these serial consoles. You may need to change the permissions on the relevant serial console using chmod to ensure that other users can work with it.