# Storage Adapter Issues

Storage Adapter Issues There are several possible indicators of a faulty bus adapter, including:

-   Poor data transfer speeds.
-   Less total space available than expected.
-   Excessive read/write errors.
-   Inability to read/write at all.
-   The system cannot detect devices at all.
-   And more.

The problem might be with the physical HBA itself, or it might be with the interface that the HBA uses, such as SCSI or SATA. The first step is to ensure that the HBA is powered. Then, you need to ensure that the storage device you're connecting to the HBA uses the appropriate interface. Even though different generations of SCSI and SATA are usually backward compatible, if the bus interface uses older technology than the drive, then the drive will be limited to that older specification. And, of course, ensure that all devices are properly slotted and all cables are connected and damage-free.

In some cases, if the system doesn't recognize a new SCSI device, you may need to rescan the SCSI bus it's attached to. The following command rescans a specific SCSI bus:

```Shell
echo "- - -" > /sys/class/scsi_host/host#/scan
``` 

The # represents the number of the bus you're trying to scan. The hyphens in the echo statement are wildcards for SCSI controller, SCSI channel, and logical unit number (LUN), respectively. This will prompt the system to scan for new devices on this bus and add any that are detected. However, this process can be disruptive, so it should only be used when necessary.

**_RAID TROUBLESHOOTING_**  

As you've seen, the mdadm command is used to manage RAID arrays. The -F option activates monitor mode, enabling you to identify missing or failed drives in an array. You can then use some of the command's other modes to rebuild an array after you've removed the faulty drive.

Some other useful mdadm options for troubleshooting RAID issues are as follows:

-   `-f` —Mark a specified device as faulty to prepare it for removal from the array.
-   `-r` —Remove the specified device from the array. Use the keyword failed to specify that all devices marked as faulty should be removed.
-   `--re-add` —Add a removed device back to the array for the purpose of recovering data stored on the device.
-   `-a` —Add a device to the array as a hot-spare. If the array is degraded, it will rebuild data on that spare. This behavior only applies to devices that are unable to be re-added or were never part of the array to begin with.