# ABRT And Guidelines for Troubleshooting Hardware Issues

#### ABRT

The **_Automatic Bug Reporting Tool (ABRT)_** is a utility, typically used on Fedora- and RHEL-based distros, that analyzes and reports on problems detected during system runtime. ABRT collects data like memory dumps from crashed applications to help administrators diagnose and troubleshoot issues. It can also report on problems with various devices, such as MCEs that typically indicate hardware failure.

ABRT can redirect problem data to many different destinations, including public issue trackers like Bugzilla and support sites like Red Hat Technical Support (RHTSupport). Or, it can simply write to a local or remote file in a standard format. The default location for problem data is in /var/spool/abrt/ with timestamped subdirectories for each problem detected.

**_ABRT UTILITIES_**  

ABRT runs as the abrtd daemon and can be configured using `abrt-cli or abrt-gui`, depending on your system (and your own preference). You can use both utilities to list problem data, view details about problem data, analyze and report on problem data, and remove unnecessary reports.

#### Guidelines for Troubleshooting Hardware Issues

Use the following guidelines when troubleshooting hardware issues.

**_TROUBLESHOOT HARDWARE ISSUES_**  
When troubleshooting hardware issues:

-   Ensure that hardware devices are supported through robust drivers.
-   Ensure that the necessary drivers are installed and loaded in the kernel.
-   Ensure that hardware devices are compatible with the Linux software that controls, manages, or interfaces with them.
-   Verify that the system has the correct keyboard layout and language set.
-   Verify that a network-enabled printer is identifiable on the network.
-   Stop large or numerous print jobs with the lprm command.
-   Check the mcelog for memory errors.
-   Run a utility like memtester to stress test RAM modules.
-   Download the latest GPU drivers from the vendor's website.
-   Ensure storage and peripheral devices are properly slotted into the correct buses.
-   Ensure connected cables are not loose or damaged.
-   Use a command like lshw to identify connected hardware.
-   Be aware that dmidecode may produce inaccurate results.
-   Review crash data compiled by the ABRT utility.