# Registration Authorities and CSRs

#### REGISTRATION AUTHORITIES AND CSRS

Registration is the process by which end users create an account with the CA and become authorized to request certificates. The exact processes by which users are authorized and their identity proven are determined by the CA implementation. For example, in a Windows Active Directory network, users and devices can often auto-enroll with the CA just by authenticating to Active Directory. Commercial CAs might perform a range of tests to ensure that a subject is who he or she claims to be. It is in the CA's interest to ensure that it only issues certificates to legitimate users, or its reputation will suffer.

> _On a private network (such as a Windows domain), the right to issue certificates of different types must be carefully controlled. The Windows CA supports access permissions for each certificate type so that you can choose which accounts are able to issue them._

When a subject wants to obtain a certificate, it completes a **certificate signing request (CSR)** and submits it to the CA. The CSR is a Base64 ASCII file containing the information that the subject wants to use in the certificate, including its public key.

The CA reviews the certificate and checks that the information is valid. For a web server, this may simply mean verifying that the subject name and fully qualified domain name (FQDN) are identical, and verifying that the CSR was initiated by the person administratively responsible for the domain, as identified in the domain's WHOIS records. If the request is accepted, the CA signs the certificate and sends it to the subject

The registration function may be delegated by the CA to one or more **registration authorities (RAs)**. These entities complete identity checking and submit CSRs on behalf of end users, but they do not actually sign or issue certificates.