# Certificate and Key Management

#### CERTIFICATE AND KEY MANAGEMENT

_Key management_ refers to operational considerations for the various stages in a key's life cycle. A key's life cycle may involve the following stages:

-   Key generation—creating a secure key pair of the required strength, using the chosen cipher.
    
-   Certificate generation—to identify the public part of a key pair as belonging to a subject (user or computer), the subject submits it for signing by the CA as a digital certificate with the appropriate key usage. At this point, it is critical to verify the identity of the subject requesting the certificate and only issue it if the subject passes identity checks.
    
-   Storage—the user must take steps to store the private key securely, ensuring that unauthorized access and use is prevented. It is also important to ensure that the private key is not lost or damaged.
    
-   Revocation—if a private key is compromised, the key pair can be revoked to prevent users from trusting the public key.
    
-   Expiration and renewal—a key pair that has not been revoked expires after a certain period. Giving the key or certificate a "shelf-life" increases security. Certificates can be renewed with new key material.
    

Key management can be _centralized_, meaning that one administrator or authority controls the process, or _decentralized_, in which each user is responsible for his or her keys.

Certificate and key management can represent a critical vulnerability if not managed properly. If an attacker can obtain a private key, it puts both data confidentiality and identification/authentication systems at risk. If an attacker gains the ability to create signed certificates that appear to be valid, it will be easy to harvest huge amounts of information from the network as the user and computer accounts he or she sets up will be automatically trusted. Finally, if a key used for encryption is accidentally destroyed, the data encrypted using that key will be inaccessible, unless there is a backup or key recovery mechanism.