# Key Recovery and Escrow

#### KEY RECOVERY AND ESCROW

Keys such as the private key of a root CA must be subject to the highest possible technical and procedural access controls. If such a key were compromised, it would put the confidentiality and integrity of data processed by hundreds or thousands of systems at risk. Access to such critical encryption keys must be logged and audited and is typically subject to **M-of-N control**, meaning that of _N_ number of administrators permitted to access the system, _M_ must be present for access to be granted. _M_ must be greater than 1, and _N_ must be greater than M. For example, when _M_ = 2 and _N_ = 4, any two of four administrators must be present. Staff authorized to perform key management must be carefully vetted, and due care should be taken if these employees leave the business.

> _Another way to use M-of-N control is to split a key between several storage devices (such as three USB sticks, any two of which could be used to recreate the full key)._

If the key used to decrypt data is lost or damaged, the encrypted data cannot be recovered unless a backup of the key has been made. A significant problem with key storage is that if you make multiple backups of a key, it is exponentially more difficult to ensure that the key is not compromised. However, if the key is not backed up, the storage system represents a single point of failure. Key recovery defines a secure process for backing up keys and/or recovering data encrypted with a lost key. This process might use _M_\-of-_N_ control to prevent unauthorized access to (and use of) the archived keys. **Escrow** means that something is held independently. In terms of key management, this refers to archiving a key (or keys) with a third party. This is a useful solution for organizations that don't have the capability to store keys securely themselves, but it invests a great deal of trust in the third party.