# Other Reconnaissance and Discovery Tools

OTHER RECONNAISSANCE AND DISCOVERY TOOLS

There are hundreds of tools relevant to security assessments, network reconnaissance, vulnerability scanning, and penetration testing. Security distributions specialize in bundling these tools for Linux—notably KALI ([kali.org](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/other-reconnaissance-and-discovery-tools)) plus ParrotOS ([parrotlinux.org](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/other-reconnaissance-and-discovery-tools))—and Windows ([fireeye.com/blog/threat-research/2019/03/commando-vm-windows-offensive-distribution.html](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/other-reconnaissance-and-discovery-tools)).

**theHarvester**  
**theHarvester** is a tool for gathering open-source intelligence (OSINT) for a particular domain or company name ([github.com/laramies/theHarvester](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/other-reconnaissance-and-discovery-tools)). It works by scanning multiple public data sources to gather emails, names, subdomains, IPs, URLs and other relevant data.

**dnsenum** While you can use tools such as `dig` and `whois` to query name records and hosting details and to check that external DNS services are not leaking too much information, a tool such as `dnsenum` packages a number of tests into a single query ([github.com/fwaeytens/dnsenum](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/other-reconnaissance-and-discovery-tools)). As well as hosting information and name records, `dnsenum` can try to work out the IP address ranges that are in use.

**scanless**  
**Port scanning** is difficult to conceal from detection systems, unless it is performed slowly and results are gathered over an extended period. Another option is to disguise the source of probes. To that end, **scanless** is a tool that uses third-party sites ([github.com/vesche/scanless](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/other-reconnaissance-and-discovery-tools)). This sort of tool is also useful in a defensive sense, by scanning for ports and services that are open but shouldn't be.

**curl**  
**curl** is a command line client for performing data transfers over many types of protocol ([curl.haxx.se](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/other-reconnaissance-and-discovery-tools)). This tool can be used to submit HTTP GET, POST, and PUT requests as part of web application vulnerability testing. `curl` supports many other data transfer protocols, including FTP, IMAP, LDAP, POP3, SMB, and SMTP.

**Nessus**  
The list of services and version information that a host is running can be cross-checked against lists of known software vulnerabilities. This type of scanning is usually performed using automated tools. **Nessus**, produced by Tenable Network Security ([tenable.com/products/nessus/nessus-professional](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/other-reconnaissance-and-discovery-tools)), is one of the best-known commercial vulnerability scanners. It is available in on-premises (Nessus Manager) and cloud (Tenable Cloud) versions, as well as a Nessus Professional version, designed for smaller networks. The product is free to use for home users but paid for on a subscription basis for enterprises. As a previously open-source program, Nessus also supplies the source code for many other scanners.