# Weak Host Configurations

#### WEAK HOST CONFIGURATIONS

While ineffective patch and configuration management policies and procedures represent one type of vulnerability, weak configurations can have similar impacts.

**Default Settings**  
Relying on the manufacturer default settings when deploying an appliance or software applications is one example of weak configuration. It is not sufficient to rely on the vendor to ship products in a default-secure configuration, though many now do. Default settings may leave unsecure interfaces enabled that allow an attacker to compromise the device. Network appliances with weak settings can allow attackers to move through the network unhindered and snoop on traffic.

**Unsecured Root Accounts**  
The root account, referred to as the default Administrator account in Windows or generically as the superuser, has no restrictions set over system access. A superuser account is used to install the OS. An unsecured root account is one that an adversary is able to gain control of, either by guessing a weak password or by using some local boot attack to set or change the password. Software bugs can also allow root access, such as one affecting MacOS ([arstechnica.com/information-technology/2017/11/macos-bug-lets-you-log-in-as-admin-with-no-password-required](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/weak-host-configurations)). These vulnerabilities are extremely serious as they give the threat actor complete control of the system.

Effective user management and authorization policies should be enforced so that the superuser account is highly restricted and administration tasks are performed by least privilege management accounts or roles instead. The default root or Administrator account is usually disabled for login. Even if this type of account is enabled for local (interactive) login, it should not be accessible via remote login mechanisms.

**Open Permissions**  
Open permissions refers to provisioning data files or applications without differentiating access rights for user groups. Permissions systems can be complex and it is easy to make mistakes, such as permitting unauthenticated guests to view confidential data files, or allowing write access when only read access is appropriate. This issue is particularly prevalent on cloud storage, where administrators used to Windows and Linux directory access control lists may be unfamiliar with the cloud equivalents ([directdefense.com/how-to-prevent-exploitation-of-amazon-s3-buckets-with-weak-permissions](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/weak-host-configurations)).