# Weak Network Configurations

#### WEAK NETWORK CONFIGURATIONS

Vulnerabilities can also arise from running unnecessary services or using weak encryption.

**Open Ports and Services**  
Network applications and services allow client connections via Transport Control Protocol (TCP) or User Datagram Protocol (UDP) port numbers. The clients and servers are identified by Internet Prototocol (IP) addresses. Servers must operate with at least some open ports, but security best practice dictates that these should be restricted to only necessary services. Running unnecessary open ports and services increases the attack surface. Some generic steps to harden services to meet a given role include:

-   If the service is security-critical (such as a remote administration interface), restrict endpoints that are allowed to access the service by IP address or address range. Alternatively, prevent suspect endpoints from connecting by adding them to the block list, but otherwise allow access.
    
-   Disable services that are installed by default but that are not needed. Ideally, disable the service on the server itself, but in some circumstances it may be necessary to block the port using a firewall instead.
    
-   For services that should only be available on the private network, block access to ports at border firewalls or segment the network so that the servers cannot be accessed from external networks.
    

**Unsecure Protocols**  
An unsecure protocol is one that transfers data as cleartext; that is, the protocol does not use encryption for data protection. Lack of encryption also means that there is no secure way to authenticate the endpoints. This allows an attacker to intercept and modify communications, acting as man-in-the-middle (MITM).

**Weak Encryption**  
Encryption algorithms protect data when it is stored on disk or transferred over a network. Encrypted data should only be accessible to someone with the correct decryption key. Weak encryption vulnerabilities allow unauthorized access to data. Such vulnerabilities arise in the following circumstances:

-   The key is generated from a simple password, making it vulnerable to guessing attempts by brute-force enumeration (if the password is too short) or dictionary enumeration (if the password is not complex).
    
-   The algorithm or cipher used for encryption has known weaknesses that allow brute-force enumeration.
    
-   The key is not distributed securely and can easily fall into the hands of people who are not authorized to decrypt the data.
    

**Errors**  
Weakly configured applications may display unformatted error messages under certain conditions. These error messages can be revealing to threat actors probing for vulnerabilities and coding mistakes. Secure coding practices should ensure that if an application fails, it does so "gracefully" without revealing information that could assist the development of an exploit.