# Impacts from Vulnerabilities

#### IMPACTS FROM VULNERABILITIES

Vulnerabilities can lead to various data breach and data loss scenarios. These events can have serious impacts in terms of costs and damage to the organization's reputation.

**Data Breaches and Data Exfiltration Impacts**  
All information should be collected, stored, and processed by authenticated users and hosts subject to the permissions (authorization) allocated to them by the data owner. Data breach and data exfiltration describe two types of event where unauthorized information use occurs:

-   A _data breach_ event is where confidential data is read, transferred, modified, or deleted without authorization. A privacy breach is where personal data is not collected, stored, or processed in full compliance with the laws or regulations governing personal information. A breach can also be described as a data leak. A data breach can be intentional/malicious or unintentional/accidental.
-   Data _exfiltration_ is the methods and tools by which an attacker transfers data without authorization from the victim's systems to an external network or media. Unlike a data breach, a data exfiltration event is always intentional and malicious. A data breach is a consequence of a data exfiltration event.

Data breach includes a wide range of scenarios with different levels of impact. The most severe data breaches compromise valuable intellectual property (IP) or the personal information of account holders.

**Identity Theft Impacts**  
A privacy breach may allow the threat actor to perform identity theft or to sell the data to other malicious actors. The threat actor may obtain account credentials or might be able to use personal details and financial information to make fraudulent credit applications and purchases.

**Data Loss and Availability Loss Impacts**  
Compared to data breaches, data loss is where information becomes unavailable, either permanently or temporarily. Availability is sometimes overlooked as a security attribute compared to confidentiality and integrity, but it can have severe impacts on business workflows. If processing systems are brought down by accidental or malicious disaster events, a company may not be able to perform crucial workflows like order processing and fulfillment.

> _Some definitions of data breach focus on the unauthorized release of information, while others include loss of information, such as encryption of a database by ransomware. The events that constitute a data breach are often specified in legislation or regulations, which will also impose requirements to notify stakeholders._

**Financial and Reputation Impacts**  
All these impacts can have direct financial impacts due to damages, fines, and loss of business. Data/privacy breach and availability loss events will also cause a company's reputation to drop with direct customers. Major events might cause widespread adverse publicity on social media and mainstream media. In anticipation of these impacts, incident handling teams should include public relations (PR) and marketing expertise to minimize reputational damage.