# Threat Hunting

#### THREAT HUNTING

Where vulnerability scanning uses lists of patches and standard definitions of baseline configurations, _threat hunting_ is an assessment technique that utilizes insights gained from threat intelligence to proactively discover whether there is evidence of TTPs already present within the network or system. This contrasts with a reactive process that is only triggered when alert conditions are reported through an incident management system. You can also contrast threat hunting with penetration testing. Where a pen test attempts to achieve some sort of system intrusion or concrete demonstration of weakness, threat hunting is based only on analysis of data within the system. To that extent, it is less potentially disruptive than pen testing.

A threat hunting project is likely to be led by senior security analysts, but some general points to observe include:

-   Advisories and bulletins—threat hunting is a labor-intensive activity and so needs to be performed with clear goals and resources. Threat hunting usually proceeds according to some hypothesis of possible threat. Security bulletins and advisories from vendors and security researchers about new TTPs and/or vulnerabilities may be the trigger for establishing a threat hunt. For example, if threat intelligence reveals that Windows desktops in many companies are being infected with a new type of malware that is not being blocked by any current malware definitions, you might initiate the following threat-hunting plan to detect whether the malware is also infecting your systems.
    
-   **Intelligence fusion** and threat data—threat hunting can be performed by manual analysis of network and log data, but this is a very lengthy process. An organization with a security information and event management (SIEM) and threat analytics platform can apply intelligence fusion techniques. The analytics platform is kept up to date with a TTP and IoC threat data feed. Analysts can develop queries and filters to correlate threat data against on-premises data from network traffic and logs. This process may also be partially or wholly automated using AI-assisted analysis and correlation.
    
-   **Maneuver**—when investigating a suspected live threat, you must remember the adversarial nature of hacking. A capable threat actor is likely to have anticipated the likelihood of threat hunting, and attempted to deploy countermeasures to frustrate detection. For example, the attacker may trigger a DDoS attack to divert the security team's attention, and then attempt to accelerate plans to achieve actions on objectives. Maneuver is a military doctrine term relating to obtaining positional advantage ([ccdcoe.org/uploads/2012/01/3\_3\_Applegate\_ThePrincipleOfManeuverInCyberOperations.pdf](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/threat-hunting)). As an example of defensive maneuver, threat hunting might use passive discovery techniques so that threat actors are given no hint that an intrusion has been discovered before the security team has a containment, eradication, and recovery plan.