# Explain Penetration Testing Concepts

> EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED  
> _1.8 Explain the techniques used in penetration testing_

Automated vulnerability scanning does not test what a highly capable threat actor might be able to achieve. Penetration testing is a type of assessment that adopts known tactics and techniques to attempt intrusions. Devising, planning, and leading penetration tests is a specialized security role, but at a junior level you are likely to participate in this type of engagement, so you should be able to explain the fundamental principles.

#### PENETRATION TESTING

A **penetration test**—often shortened to _pen test_—uses authorized hacking techniques to discover exploitable weaknesses in the target's security systems. Pen testing is also referred to as _ethical hacking_. A pen test might involve the following steps:

-   Verify a threat exists—use surveillance, social engineering, network scanners, and vulnerability assessment tools to identify a vector by which vulnerabilities that could be exploited.
    
-   Bypass security controls—look for easy ways to attack the system. For example, if the network is strongly protected by a firewall, is it possible to gain physical access to a computer in the building and run malware from a USB stick?
    
-   Actively test security controls—probe controls for configuration weaknesses and errors, such as weak passwords or software vulnerabilities.
    
-   Exploit vulnerabilities—prove that a vulnerability is high risk by exploiting it to gain access to data or install backdoors.
    

The key difference from passive vulnerability assessment is that an attempt is made to actively test security controls and exploit any vulnerabilities discovered. Pen testing is an intrusive assessment technique. For example, a vulnerability scan may reveal that an SQL Server has not been patched to safeguard against a known exploit. A penetration test would attempt to use the exploit to perform code injection and compromise and "own" (or "pwn" in hacker idiom) the server. This provides active testing of security controls. Even though the potential for the exploit exists, in practice the permissions on the server might prevent an attacker from using it. This would not be identified by a vulnerability scan, but should be proven or not proven to be the case by penetration testing.