# Exercise Types

#### EXERCISE TYPES

Some of the techniques used in penetration testing may also be employed as an exercise between two competing teams:

-   **Red team**—performs the offensive role to try to infiltrate the target.
    
-   **Blue team**—performs the defensive role by operating monitoring and alerting controls to detect and prevent the infiltration.
    

There will also often be a **white team**, which sets the rules of engagement and monitors the exercise, providing arbitration and guidance, if necessary. If the red team is third party, the white team will include a representative of the consultancy company. One critical task of the white team is to halt the exercise should it become too risky. For example, an actual threat actor may attempt to piggyback a backdoor established by the red team.

In a red versus blue team exercise, the typical process is for the red team to attempt the intrusion and either succeed or fail, and then to write a summary report. This confrontational structure does not always promote constructive development and improvement. In a purple team exercise, the red and blue teams meet for regular debriefs while the exercise is ongoing. The red team might reveal where they have been successful and collaborate with the blue team on working out a detection mechanism. This process might be assisted by **purple team** members acting as facilitators. The drawback of a purple team exercise is that without blind or double-blind conditions, there is no simulation of a hostile adversary and the stresses of dealing with that.