# HIGH AVAILABILITY

#### HIGH AVAILABILITY

One of the key properties of a resilient system is **high availability**. Availability is the percentage of time that the system is online, measured over the defined period, typically one year. The corollary of availability is downtime, or the amount of time for which the system is unavailable. The maximum tolerable downtime (MTD) metric expresses the availability requirement for a particular business function. High availability is usually loosely described as 24x7 (24 hours per day, 7 days per week) or 24x365 (24 hours per day, 365 days per year). For a critical system, availability will be described as "two-nines" (99%) up to five- or six-nines (99.9999%):

Availability | Annual Downtime (hh:mm:ss)
----- | -----
99.9999% | 00:00:32
99.999% | 00:05:15
99.99% | 00:52:34
99.9% | 08:45:36
99%  | 87:36:00

  
Downtime is calculated from the sum of scheduled service intervals plus unplanned outages over the period.

> _System availability can refer to an overall process, but also to availability at the level of a server or individual component._

**Scalability and Elasticity**  
High availability also means that a system is able to cope with rapid growth in demand. These properties are referred to as scalability and elasticity. Scalability is the capacity to increase resources to meet demand within similar cost ratios. This means that if service demand doubles, costs do not more than double. There are two types of scalability:

-   To scale out is to add more resources in parallel with existing resources.

-   To scale up is to increase the power of existing resources.

Elasticity refers to the system's ability to handle these changes on demand in real time. A system with high elasticity will not experience loss of service or performance if demand suddenly increases rapidly.

**Fault Tolerance and Redundancy**  

A system that can experience failures and continue to provide the same (or nearly the same) level of service is said to be **fault tolerant**. Fault tolerance is often achieved by provisioning **redundancy** for critical components and single points of failure. A redundant component is one that is not essential to the normal function of a system but that allows the system to recover from the failure of another component.