# BACKUP STORAGE ISSUES

#### BACKUP STORAGE ISSUES

Backed up and archived data need to be stored as securely as live data. A data backup has the same confidentiality and integrity requirements as its source. It also has its own availability requirement. Typically, backup media is physically secured against theft or snooping by keeping it in a restricted part of the building, with other server and network equipment. Many backup solutions use encryption to ensure data confidentiality should the media be stolen.

**Offsite Storage**  
Additionally, you must plan for events that could compromise both the live data and the backup set. Natural disasters, such as fires, earthquakes, and floods, could leave an organization without a data backup, unless they have kept a copy offsite. Distance consideration is a calculation of how far offsite the backup needs to be kept, given different disaster scenarios. On the one hand, the media must be kept far away enough not to be damaged by the disaster; on the other, media access should not slow down a recovery operation too much.

Without a network that can support the required bandwidth, the offsite media must be physically brought onsite (and if there is no second set of offsite media, data is at substantial risk at this time), the latest backup performed, and then removed to offsite storage again. Quite apart from the difficulty and expense of doing this, there are data confidentiality and security issues in transporting the data. In recent years, high-bandwidth Internet and high-capacity cloud storage providers have made offsite backup solutions much more affordable and easy to implement.

**Online versus Offline Backups**  
As well as the onsite/offsite consideration, you should also be aware of a distinction between online and offline backups. An online backup system is instantly available to perform a backup or restore operation without an administrator having to transport and connect a device or load some backup media. An offline backup is disconnected from the host and must be connected manually.

An online system is faster, but an offline backup offers better security. Consider the case of cryptoransomware, for instance. If the backup system is connected to the infected host, the ransomware will encrypt the backup, rendering it useless. Some cryptoransomware is configured to try to access cloud accounts and encrypt the cloud storage (f-secure.com/v-descs/articles/crypto-ransomware.shtml).

> _The 3-2-1 rule states that you should have three copies of your data, across two media types, with one copy held offline and offsite_.