# BACKUP MEDIA TYPES

#### BACKUP MEDIA TYPES

A backup operation can use several media types. Each type has advantages and disadvantages that make it more or less suitable for given scenarios.

**Disk**  
Individual removable hard drives are an excellent low-cost option for small office/home office (SOHO) network backups, but they do not have sufficient capacity or flexibility to be used within an automated enterprise backup solution.

**Network Attached Storage (NAS)**  
A **network attached storage (NAS)** appliance is a specially configured type of server that makes RAID storage available over common network protocols, such as Windows File Sharing (SMB) or FTP. A NAS appliance is accessed via an IP address and backup takes place at file-level. A NAS can be another good option for SOHO backup, but as a single device, it provides no offsite option. As it is normally kept online, it can be vulnerable to cryptoransomware as well.

**Tape**  
Digital **tape** systems are a popular choice for institutions with multi-terabyte storage requirements. Tape is very cost effective and, given a media rotation system, tapes can be transported offsite. The latest generation of tape will store about 10-12 terabytes per cartridge or up to about 30 TB with compression. The main drawback of tape is that it is slow, compared to disk-based solutions, especially for restore operations.

**Storage Area Network (SAN) and Cloud**  
A RAID array or tape drive/autoloader can be provisioned as direct attached storage, where a server hosts the backup devices, usually over **serial attached SCSI (SAS)**. Direct attached storage has limited scalability, so enterprise and cloud storage solutions often use **storage area networks (SAN)** as a layer of abstraction between the file system objects presented to servers and the configuration of the actual storage media. Where NAS uses file-level access to storage, a SAN is based on block-level addressing. A SAN can incorporate RAID arrays and tape systems within the same network. SANs can achieve offsite storage through replication.