- # RESTORATION ORDER And NONPERSISTENCE

#### RESTORATION ORDER

If a site suffers an uncontrolled outage, in ideal circumstances processing will be switched to an alternate site and the outage can be resolved without any service interruption. If an alternate processing site is not available, then the main site must be brought back online as quickly as possible to minimize service disruption. This does not mean that the process can be rushed, however. A complex facility such as a data center or campus network must be reconstituted according to a carefully designed **order of restoration**. If systems are brought back online in an uncontrolled way, there is the serious risk of causing additional power problems or of causing problems in the network, OS, or application layers because dependencies between different appliances and servers have not been met.

In very general terms, the order of restoration will be as follows:

1.  Enable and test power delivery systems (grid power, power distribution units \[PDUs\], UPS, secondary generators, and so on).
    
2.  Enable and test switch infrastructure, then routing appliances and systems.
    
3.  Enable and test network security appliances (firewalls, IDS, proxies).
    
4.  Enable and test critical network servers (DHCP, DNS, NTP, and directory services).
    
5.  Enable and test back-end and middleware (databases and business logic). Verify data integrity.
    
6.  Enable and test front-end applications.
    
7.  Enable client workstations and devices and client browser access.
    

#### NONPERSISTENCE

When recovering systems, it may be necessary to ensure that any artifacts from the disaster, such as malware or backdoors, are removed when reconstituting the production environment. This can be facilitated in an environment designed for **nonpersistence**. Nonpersistence means that any given instance is completely static in terms of processing function. Data is separated from the instance so that it can be swapped out for an "as new" copy without suffering any configuration problems. There are various mechanisms for ensuring nonpersistence:

-   Snapshot/revert to known state—this is a saved system state that can be reapplied to the instance.

-   Rollback to known configuration—a physical instance might not support snapshots but has an "internal" mechanism for restoring the baseline system configuration, such as Windows System Restore.
-   Live boot media—another option is to use an instance that boots from read-only storage to memory rather than being installed on a local read/write hard disk.

When provisioning a new or replacement instance automatically, the automation system may use one of two types of mastering instructions:

-   Master image—this is the "gold" copy of a server instance, with the OS, applications, and patches all installed and configured. This is faster than using a template, but keeping the image up to date can involve more work than updating a template.

-   Automated build from a template—similar to a master image, this is the build instructions for an instance. Rather than storing a master image, the software may build and provision an instance according to the template instructions.

Another important process in automating resiliency strategies is to provide configuration validation. This process ensures that a recovery solution is working at each layer (hardware, network connectivity, data replication, and application). An automation solution for incident and disaster recovery will have a dashboard of key indicators and may be able to evaluate metrics such as compliance with recovery point objective (RPO) and recovery time objective (RTO) from observed data.