# ASSET MANAGEMENT

#### ASSET MANAGEMENT

An asset management process tracks all the organization's critical systems, components, devices, and other objects of value in an inventory. It also involves collecting and analyzing information about these assets so that personnel can make more informed changes or otherwise work with assets to achieve business goals.

There are many software suites and associated hardware solutions available for tracking and managing assets. An asset management database can be configured to store as much or as little information as is deemed necessary, though typical data would be type, model, serial number, asset ID, location, user(s), value, and service information.

> _We are focusing on assets that require some degree of configuration (CIs). An organization will also have many assets with no configuration requirement, such as furniture._

**Asset Identification and Standard Naming Conventions**  
Tangible assets can be identified using a barcode label or radio frequency ID (RFID) tag attached to the device (or more simply, using an identification number). An RFID tag is a chip programmed with asset data. When in range of a scanner, the chip activates and signals the scanner. The scanner alerts management software to update the device's location. As well as asset tracking, this allows the management software to track the location of the device, making theft more difficult.

A **standard naming convention** for hardware assets, and for digital assets such as accounts and virtual machines, makes the environment more consistent. This means that errors are easier to spot and that it is easier to automate through scripting. The naming strategy should allow administrators to identify the type and function of any particular resource or location at any point in the CMDB or network directory. Each label should conform to rules for host and DNS names (support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/909264/naming-conventions-in-active-directory-for-computers-domains-sites-and). As well as an ID attribute, the location and function of tangible and digital assets can be recorded using attribute tags and fields or DNS CNAME and TXT resource records.

**Internet Protocol (IP) Schema**  
The division of the IP address space into subnets should be carefully planned and documented in an Internet Protocol (IP) schema. Using a consistent addressing methodology makes it easier to apply firewall access control lists (ACLs) and perform security monitoring (tools.cisco.com/security/center/resources/security\_ip\_addressing.html). It also makes configuration errors less likely and easier to detect. Within each subnet, the schema should identify IP addresses reserved for manual or static allocation versus DHCP address pools. **IP address management (IPAM)** software suites can be used to monitor IP usage.