# CHANGE CONTROL AND CHANGE MANAGEMENT

#### CHANGE CONTROL AND CHANGE MANAGEMENT

Service management standards distinguish change control as distinct procedures for requesting and approving changes within an overall change management process.

**Change Control**  
A change control process can be used to request and approve changes in a planned and controlled way. Change requests are usually generated when something needs to be corrected, when something changes, or when there is room for improvement in a process or system currently in place. The need to change is often described either as reactive, where the change is forced on the organization, or as proactive, where the need for change is initiated internally. Changes can also be categorized according to their potential impact and level of risk (major, significant, minor, or normal, for instance). In a formal change management process, the need or reasons for change and the procedure for implementing the change is captured in a request for change (RFC) document and submitted for approval.

The RFC will then be considered at the appropriate level and affected stakeholders will be notified. This might be a supervisor or department manager if the change is normal or minor. Major or significant changes might be managed as a separate project and require approval through a change advisory board (CAB).

**Change Management**  
The implementation of changes should be carefully planned, with consideration for how the change will affect dependent components. For most significant or major changes, organizations should attempt to trial the change first. Every change should be accompanied by a rollback (or remediation) plan, so that the change can be reversed if it has harmful or unforeseen consequences. Changes should also be scheduled sensitively if they are likely to cause system downtime or other negative impact on the workflow of the business units that depend on the IT system being modified. Most networks have a scheduled maintenance window period for authorized downtime. When the change has been implemented, its impact should be assessed, and the process reviewed and documented to identify any outcomes that could help future change management projects.