# DECEPTION AND DISRUPTION STRATEGIES

#### DECEPTION AND DISRUPTION STRATEGIES

The practice of cybersecurity is often described as asymmetric warfare; the defenders have to win every encounter and be ready all the time. The threat actors can choose when to attack and only have to win once. Some cybersecurity tactics aim to reduce that asymmetry by increasing the attack cost. This means that a threat actor has to commit more resources to even plan an attack.

**Active defense** means an engagement with the adversary, but this can be interpreted in several different ways. One type of active defense involves the deployment of decoy assets to act as lures or bait. It is much easier to detect intrusions when an attacker interacts with a decoy resource, because you can precisely control baseline traffic and normal behavior in a way that is more difficult to do for production assets.

**Honeypots, Honeynets, and Honeyfiles**  
A **honeypot** is a computer system set up to attract threat actors, with the intention of analyzing attack strategies and tools, to provide early warnings of attack attempts, or possibly as a decoy to divert attention from actual computer systems. Another use is to detect internal fraud, snooping, and malpractice. A honeynet is an entire decoy network. This may be set up as an actual network or simulated using an emulator.

Deploying a honeypot or honeynet can help an organization to improve its security systems, but there is the risk that the attacker can still learn a great deal about how the network is configured and protected from analyzing the honeypot system. Many honeypots are set up by security researchers investigating malware threats, software exploits, and spammers' abuse of open relay mail systems. These systems are generally fully exposed to the Internet. On a production network, a honeypot is more likely to be located in a DMZ, or on an isolated segment on the private network (if the honeypot is seeking to draw out insider threats). This provides early warning and evidence of whether an attacker has been able to penetrate to a given security zone. This can help the security team find the source of the attack and take more comprehensive steps to completely eradicate the threat from the organization.

A honeypot or honeynet can be combined with the concept of a honeyfile, which is convincingly useful, but actually fake, data. This honeyfile can be made trackable, so that when a threat actor successfully exfiltrates it, the attempts to resuse or exploit it can be traced.

For example, an organization constructs a database full of benign or meaningless data disguised as important financial records. This deception strategy might involve breadcrumbs inserted into the production environment to subtly guide a threat actor toward the spoofed "loot" (fidelissecurity.com/threatgeek/deception/breadcrumbs-intelligent-deception). The database is placed behind a subnet with lowered defenses, which baits an attacker into trying to exfiltrate this useless data. Identifying the attacker also allows an organization to pursue an attribution strategy. Attribution means the organization publicizes the attacker's role and publishes the methods used as threat intelligence.

**Disruption Strategies**  
Another type of active defense uses disruption strategies. These adopt some of the obfuscation strategies used by malicious actors. The aim is to raise the attack cost and tie up the adversary's resources. Some examples of disruption strategies include:

-   Using bogus DNS entries to list multiple hosts that do not exist.

Configuring a web server with multiple decoy directories or dynamically generated pages to slow down scanning.

-   Using port triggering or spoofing to return **fake telemetry** data when a host detects port scanning activity. This will result in multiple ports being falsely reported as open and will slow down the scan. Telemetry can refer to any type of measurement or data returned by remote scanning. Similar fake telemetry could be used to report IP addresses as up when they are not, for instance.
-   Using a **DNS sinkhole** to route suspect traffic to a different network, such as a honeynet, where it can be analyzed.