# TAPs and Port Mirrors

#### TAPS AND PORT MIRRORS

Typically, the packet capture sensor is placed inside a firewall or close to a server of particular importance. The idea is usually to identify malicious traffic that has managed to get past the firewall. A single IDS can generate a very large amount of logging and alerting data so you cannot just put multiple sensors everywhere in the network without provisioning the resources to manage them properly. Depending on network size and resources, one or just a few sensors will be deployed to monitor key assets or network paths.

-   **SPAN (switched port analyzer)/mirror port**—this means that the sensor is attached to a specially configured port on the switch that receives copies of frames addressed to nominated access ports (or all the other ports). This method is not completely reliable. Frames with errors will not be mirrored and frames may be dropped under heavy load.
    
-   Passive **test access point (TAP)**—this is a box with ports for incoming and outgoing network cabling and an inductor or optical splitter that physically copies the signal from the cabling to a monitor port. There are types for copper and fiber optic cabling. Unlike a SPAN, no logic decisions are made so the monitor port receives every frame—corrupt or malformed or not—and the copying is unaffected by load.
    
-   Active TAP—this is a powered device that performs signal regeneration (again, there are copper and fiber variants), which may be necessary in some circumstances. Gigabit signaling over copper wire is too complex for a passive tap to monitor and some types of fiber links may be adversely affected by optical splitting. Because it performs an active function, the TAP becomes a point of failure for the links in the event of power loss. When deploying an active TAP, it is important to use a model with internal batteries or connect it to a UPS.
    

A TAP will usually output two streams to monitor a full-duplex link (one channel for upstream and one for downstream). Alternatively, there are aggregation TAPs, which rebuild the streams into a single channel, but these can drop frames under very heavy load.