# Behavior and Anomaly-Based Detection

#### BEHAVIOR AND ANOMALY-BASED DETECTION

**Behavioral-based detection** means that the engine is trained to recognize baseline "normal" traffic or events. Anything that deviates from this baseline (outside a defined level of tolerance) generates an incident. The idea is that the software will be able to identify zero day attacks, insider threats, and other malicious activity for which there is single signature.

Historically, this type of detection was provided by network behavior and anomaly detection (NBAD) products. An NBAD engine uses **heuristics** (meaning to learn from experience) to generate a statistical model of what baseline normal traffic looks like. It may develop several profiles to model network use at different times of the day. This means that the system generates false positive and false negatives until it has had time to improve its statistical model of what is "normal." A **false positive** is where legitimate behavior generates an alert, while a **false negative** is where malicious activity is not alerted.

While NBAD products were relatively unsophisticated, the use of machine learning in more recent products has helped to make them more productive. As identified by Gartner's market analysis (gartner.com/en/documents/3917096/market-guide-for-user-and-entity-behavior-analytics), there are two general classes of behavior-based detection products that utilize machine learning:

-   User and entity behavior analytics (UEBA)—these products scan indicators from multiple intrusion detection and log sources to identify anomalies. They are often integrated with security information and event management (SIEM) platforms.
    
-   Network traffic analysis (NTA)—these products are closer to IDS and NBAD in that they apply analysis techniques only to network streams, rather than multiple network and log data sources.
    

Often behavioral- and anomaly-based detection are taken to mean the same thing (in the sense that the engine detects anomalous behavior). Anomaly-based detection can also be taken to mean specifically looking for irregularities in the use of protocols. For example, the engine may check packet headers or the exchange of packets in a session against RFC standards and generate an alert if they deviate from strict RFC compliance.