# Host-Based Intrusion Detection Systems

#### HOST-BASED INTRUSION DETECTION SYSTEMS

A **host-based IDS (HIDS)** captures information from a single host, such as a server, router, or firewall. Some organizations may configure HIDS on each client workstation. HIDS come in many different forms with different capabilities. The core ability is to capture and analyze log files, but more sophisticated systems can also monitor OS kernel files, monitor ports and network interfaces, and process data and logs generated by specific applications, such as HTTP or FTP.

HIDS software produces similar output to an anti-malware scanner. If the software detects a threat, it may just log the event or display an alert. The log should show you which process initiated the event and what resources on the host were affected. You can use the log to investigate whether the suspect process is authorized or should be removed from the host.

One of the core features of HIDS is **file integrity monitoring (FIM)**. This may also be implemented as a standalone feature. When software is installed from a legitimate source (using signed code in the case of Windows or a secure repository in the case of Linux), the OS package manager checks the signature or fingerprint of each executable file and notifies the user if there is a problem. FIM software audits key system files to make sure they match the authorized versions. In Windows, the Windows File Protection service runs automatically and the System File Checker (sfc) tool can be used manually to verify OS system files. Tripwire ([tripwire.com](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/host-based-intrusion-detection-systems)) and OSSEC ([ossec.net](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/host-based-intrusion-detection-systems)) are examples of multi-platform tools with options to protect a wider range of applications.