# KEY ASPECTS OF DIGITAL FORENSICS

#### KEY ASPECTS OF DIGITAL FORENSICS

Digital **forensics** is the practice of collecting evidence from computer systems to a standard that will be accepted in a court of law. Forensics investigations are most likely to be launched against crimes arising from insider threats, notably fraud or misuse of equipment (to download or store obscene material, for instance). Prosecuting external threat sources is often difficult, as the threat actor may well be in a different country or have taken effective steps to disguise his or her location and identity. Such prosecutions are normally initiated by law enforcement agencies, where the threat is directed against military or governmental agencies or is linked to organized crime.

**Evidence, Documentation, and Admissibility**  
Like DNA or fingerprints, digital evidence is latent. Latent means that the evidence cannot be seen with the naked eye; rather, it must be interpreted using a machine or process. This means that great care must be taken to ensure the admissibility of digital evidence. As well as the physical evidence (a hard drive, for instance), digital forensics requires documentation showing how the evidence was collected and analyzed without tampering or bias.

**Due process** is a term used in US and UK common law to require that people only be convicted of crimes following the fair application of the laws of the land. More generally, due process can be understood to mean having a set of procedural safeguards to ensure fairness. This principle is central to forensic investigation. If a forensic investigation is launched (or if one is a possibility), it is important that technicians and managers are aware of the processes that the investigation will use. It is vital that they are able to assist the investigator and that they not do anything to compromise the investigation. In a trial, defense counsel will try to exploit any uncertainty or mistake regarding the integrity of evidence or the process of collecting it.

The first response period following detection and notification is often critical. To gather evidence successfully, it is vital that staff do not panic or act in a way that would compromise the investigation.

**Legal Hold**  
Legal hold refers to the fact that information that may be relevant to a court case must be preserved. Information subject to legal hold might be defined by regulators or industry best practice, or there may be a litigation notice from law enforcement or lawyers pursuing a civil action. This means that computer systems may be taken as evidence, with all the obvious disruption to a network that entails.

**Chain of Custody**  
**Chain of custody** documentation reinforces the integrity and proper handling of evidence from collection, to analysis, to storage, and finally to presentation. When security breaches go to trial, the chain of custody protects an organization against accusations that evidence has either been tampered with or is different than it was when it was collected. Every person in the chain who handles evidence must log the methods and tools they used.