# DIGITAL FORENSICS REPORTS AND E-DISCOVERY

#### DIGITAL FORENSICS REPORTS

A digital forensics report summarizes the significant contents of the digital data and the conclusions from the investigator's analysis. It is important to note that strong ethical principles must guide forensics analysis.

-   Analysis must be performed without bias. Conclusions and opinions should be formed only from the direct evidence under analysis.
  
-   Analysis methods must be repeatable by third parties with access to the same evidence.
  
-   Ideally, the evidence must not be changed or manipulated. If a device used as evidence must be manipulated to facilitate analysis (disabling the lock feature of a mobile phone or preventing a remote wipe for example), the reasons for doing so must be sound and the process of doing so must be recorded.

Defense counsel may try to use any deviation of good ethical and professional behavior to have the forensics investigator's findings dismissed.

#### E-DISCOVERY

A forensic examination of a device such as a fixed drive that contains Electronically Stored Information (ESI) entails a search of the whole drive (including both allocated and unallocated sectors, for instance). **E-discovery** is a means of filtering the relevant evidence produced from all the data gathered by a forensic examination and storing it in a database in a format such that it can be used as evidence in a trial. E-discovery software tools have been produced to assist this process. Some of the functions of e-discovery suites are:

-   Identify and de-duplicate files and metadata—many files on a computer system are "standard" installed files or copies of the same file. E-discovery filters these types of files, reducing the volume of data that must be analyzed.
  
-   Search—allow investigators to locate files of interest to the case. As well as keyword search, software might support semantic search. Semantic search matches keywords if they correspond to a particular context.
  
-   Tags—apply standardized keywords or labels to files and metadata to help organize the evidence. Tags might be used to indicate relevancy to the case or part of the case or to show confidentiality, for instance.
  
-   Security—at all points evidence must be shown to have been stored, transmitted, and analyzed without tampering.
  
-   Disclosure—an important part of trial procedure is that the same evidence be made available to both plaintiff and defendant. E-discovery can fulfill this requirement. Recent court cases have required parties to a court case to provide searchable ESI rather than paper records.