# DATA ACQUISITION AND ORDER OF VOLATILITY

##### DATA ACQUISITION AND ORDER OF VOLATILITY

**Acquisition** is the process of obtaining a forensically clean copy of data from a device held as evidence. If the computer system or device is not owned by the organization, there is the question of whether search or seizure is legally valid. This impacts **bring-your-own-device (BYOD)** policies. For example, if an employee is accused of fraud you must verify that the employee's equipment and data can be legally seized and searched. Any mistake may make evidence gained from the search inadmissible.

Data acquisition is also complicated by the fact that it is more difficult to capture evidence from a digital crime scene than it is from a physical one. Some evidence will be lost if the computer system is powered off; on the other hand, some evidence may be unobtainable until the system is powered off. Additionally, evidence may be lost depending on whether the system is shut down or "frozen" by suddenly disconnecting the power.

Data acquisition usually proceeds by using a tool to make an image from the data held on the target device. An image can be acquired from either volatile or nonvolatile storage. The general principle is to capture evidence in the **order of volatility**, from more volatile to less volatile. The ISOC best practice guide to evidence collection and archiving, published as tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3227, sets out the general order as follows:

1.  CPU registers and cache memory (including cache on disk controllers, GPUs, and so on).
  
3.  Contents of nonpersistent system memory (RAM), including routing table, ARP cache, process table, kernel statistics.
  
5.  Data on persistent mass storage devices (HDDs, SSDs, and flash memory devices):

-   Partition and file system blocks, slack space, and free space.
  
-   System memory caches, such as swap space/virtual memory and hibernation files.
  
-   Temporary file caches, such as the browser cache.
  
-   User, application, and OS files and directories.

  
8.  Remote logging and monitoring data.
  
10.  Physical configuration and network topology.
  
12.  Archival media and printed documents.

  

> _The Windows registry is mostly stored on disk, but there are keys—notably HKLM\\Hardware—that only ever exist in memory. The contents of the registry can be analyzed via a memory dump._