# DIGITAL FORENSICS FOR CLOUD

##### DIGITAL FORENSICS FOR CLOUD

With an on-premises investigation, the right to seize and analyze devices is usually fairly unproblematic. There may be availability issues with taking a system out of service, and bring-your-own-device policies can be more complex, but essentially as all the equipment is the company's property, there are no third-party obstacles.

While companies can operate private clouds, forensics in a public cloud are complicated by the right to audit permitted to you by your service level agreement (SLA) with the cloud provider. Two more issues with forensics investigations of cloud-hosted processing and data services are as follows:

-   The on-demand nature of cloud services means that instances are often created and destroyed again, with no real opportunity for forensic recovery of any data. Cloud providers can mitigate this to some extent with extensive logging and monitoring options. A CSP might also provide an option to generate file system and memory snapshots from containers and VMs in response to an alert condition generated by a SIEM.
  
-   Chain of custody issues are complex and might have to rely on the CSP to select and package data for you. The process should be documented and recorded as closely as is possible.
  
-   Jurisdiction and data sovereignty may restrict what evidence the CSP is willing to release to you.
  
-   If the CSP is a data processor, it will be bound by data breach notification laws and regulations. Coordinating the timing of notification and contact with the regulator between your organization and the CSP can be extremely complex, especially if there is an ongoing incident requiring confidentiality.