# USB AND FLASH DRIVE SECURITY

#### USB AND FLASH DRIVE SECURITY

As revealed by researcher Karsten Nohl in his BadUSB paper (srlabs.de/wp-content/uploads/2014/07/SRLabs-BadUSB-BlackHat-v1.pdf), exploiting the firmware of external storage devices, such as USB flash drives (and potentially any other type of firmware), presents adversaries with an incredible toolkit. The firmware can be reprogrammed to make the device look like another device class, such as a keyboard. In this case it could then be used to inject a series of keystrokes upon an attachment or work as a keylogger. The device could also be programmed to act like a network device and corrupt name resolution, redirecting the user to malicious websites.

Another example is the O.MG cable (theverge.com/2019/8/15/20807854/apple-mac-lightning-cable-hack-mike-grover-mg-omg-cables-defcon-cybersecurity), which packs enough processing capability into an ordinary-looking USB-Lightning cable to run an access point and keylogger.

A modified device may have visual clues that distinguish it from a mass manufactured thumb drive or cable, but these may be difficult to spot. You should warn users of the risks and repeat the advice to never attach devices of unknown provenance to their computers and smartphones. If you suspect a device as an attack vector, observe a sandboxed lab system (sometimes referred to as a sheep dip) closely when attaching the device. Look for command prompt windows or processes such as the command interpreter starting and changes to the registry or other system files.

> _Not all attacks have to be so esoteric. USB sticks infected with ordinary malware are still incredibly prolific infection vectors. Hosts should always be configured to prevent autorun when USB devices are attached. USB ports can be blocked altogether using most types of Host Intrusion Detection Systems (HIDS)._