# END OF LIFE SYSTEMS

#### END OF LIFE SYSTEMS

When a manufacturer discontinues sales of a product, it **enters an end of life (EOL)** phase in which support and availability of spares and updates become more limited. An **end of service life (EOSL)** system is one that is no longer supported by its developer or vendor. EOSL products no longer receive security updates and so represent a critical vulnerability if any remain in active use.

For example, in Microsoft's support life cycle policy, Windows versions are given five years of mainstream support and five years of extended support (during which only security updates are shipped). You can check the support status for a particular version of Windows at support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/13853/windows-lifecycle-fact-sheet.

Most OS and application vendors have similar policies. Care also needs to be taken with open source software. If the software is well-maintained, the development group will identify versions that have Long Term Support (LTS). Other builds and version branches might not receive updates.

It is also possible for both open source and commercial projects to be abandoned; if a company continues to rely on such abandonware, it will have to assume development responsibility for it. There are many instances of applications and devices (peripheral devices especially) that remain on sale with serious known vulnerabilities in firmware or drivers and no prospect of vendor support for a fix. The problem is also noticeable in consumer-grade networking appliances and in the Internet of Things. When provisioning a supplier for applications and devices, it is vital to establish that they have effective security management life cycles for their products.

#### ORGANIZATIONAL SECURITY AGREEMENTS

It is important to remember that although one can outsource virtually any service or activity to a third party, one cannot outsource legal accountability for these services or actions. You are ultimately responsible for the services and actions that these third parties take. If they have any access to your data or systems, any security breach in their organization (for example, unauthorized data sharing) is effectively a breach in yours. Issues of security risk awareness, shared duties, and contractual responsibilities can be set out in a formal legal agreement. The following types of agreements are common:

-   **Memorandum of understanding (MOU)**—A preliminary or exploratory agreement to express an intent to work together. MOUs are usually intended to be relatively informal and not to act as binding contracts. MOUs almost always have clauses stating that the parties shall respect confidentiality, however.
  
-   **Business partnership agreement (BPA)**—While there are many ways of establishing business partnerships, the most common model in IT is the partner agreements that large IT companies (such as Microsoft and Cisco) set up with resellers and solution providers.
  
-   **Nondisclosure agreement (NDA)**—Legal basis for protecting information assets. NDAs are used between companies and employees, between companies and contractors, and between two companies. If the employee or contractor breaks this agreement and does share such information, they may face legal consequences. NDAs are useful because they deter employees and contractors from violating the trust that an employer places in them.
  
-   **Service level agreement (SLA)**—A contractual agreement setting out the detailed terms under which a service is provided.
  
-   **Measurement systems analysis (MSA)**—quality management processes, such as Six Sigma, make use of quantified analysis methods to determine the effectiveness of a system. This can be applied to cybersecurity procedures, such as vulnerability and threat detection and response. A measurement systems analysis (MSA) is a means of evaluating the data collection and statistical methods used by a quality management process to ensure they are robust. This might be an onboarding requirement when partnering with enterprise companies or government agencies.
  

A legal agreement is all very well, but it is still up to you to make sure that your suppliers, vendors, and contractors can live up to it. If they can't, you may successfully sue them, but if they go out of business, you are still accountable for their actions or failures to act.

> _Conversely, you need to ensure that you can comply with the requirements and performance standards of any agreements that you enter into as a service provider._