# Implement Endpoint Security

> **EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED**
> 
> _3.2 Given a scenario, implement host or application security solutions_

Host hardware integrity is not of much use if the OS and applications software running on it is weakly configured. As a security professional, you will often assist with drafting configuration baselines, ensuring hosts comply with those baselines, and implementing endpoint protection security agents.

#### HARDENING

The process of putting an operating system or application in a secure configuration is called hardening. When hardening a system, it is important to keep in mind its intended use, because hardening a system can also restrict the system's access and capabilities. The need for hardening must be balanced against the access requirements and usability in a particular situation.

For an OS functioning in a given role, there will usually be a fairly standard series of steps to follow to apply a secure configuration to allow the OS and applications software to execute that role. Many of the requirements can be applied automatically via a configuration baseline template. The essential principle is of least functionality; that a system should run only the protocols and services required by legitimate users and no more. This reduces the potential attack surface.

-   Interfaces provide a connection to the network. Some machines may have more than one interface. For example, there may be wired and wireless interfaces or a modem interface. Some machines may come with a management network interface card. If any of these interfaces are not required, they should be explicitly disabled rather than simply left unused.
  
-   Services provide a library of functions for different types of applications. Some services support local features of the OS and installed applications. Other services support remote connections from clients to server applications. Unused services should be disabled.
  
-   Application service ports allow client software to connect to applications over a network. These should either be disabled or blocked at a firewall if remote access is not required. Be aware that a server might be configured with a nonstandard port. For example, an HTTP server might be configured to use 8080 rather than 80. Conversely, malware may try to send nonstandard data over an open port. An intrusion detection system should detect if network data does not correspond to the expected protocol format.
  
-   Persistent storage holds user data generated by applications, plus cached credentials. Disk encryption is essential to data security. Self encrypting drives can be used so that all data-at-rest is always stored securely.
  

It is also important to establish a maintenance cycle for each device and keep up to date with new security threats and responses for the particular software products that you are running.