# Explain Embedded System Security Implications

> **EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED**
> 
> _2.6 Explain the security implications of embedded and specialized systems_

As well as the obvious computing hosts within your networks, you must also account for the security of embedded systems. Embedded computing functionality can be found in consumer electronics devices and in specialist monitoring and control systems, so it is important that you know how to identify and secure these devices.

#### EMBEDDED SYSTEMS

An **embedded system** is a complete computer system that is designed to perform a specific, dedicated function. These systems can be as contained as a microcontroller in an intravenous drip-rate meter or as large and complex as the network of control devices managing a water treatment plant. Embedded systems can be characterized as static environments. A PC is a dynamic environment. The user can add or remove programs and data files, install new hardware components, and upgrade the operating system. A static environment does not allow or require such frequent changes.

In terms of security this can be ideal, because unchanging environments are typically easier to protect and defend. Static computing environments pose their own risks, however. A static environment is often a black box to security administrators. Unlike an OS environment such as Windows, there may be little support for identifying and correcting security issues.

**Cost, Power, and Compute Constraints**  
Embedded systems are usually constrained in terms of processor capability (cores and speed), system memory, and persistent storage. Cost is an important factor. As devices may be used in large numbers and are designed for fairly predictable processing workloads, there is no obvious reason to over-provision compute resources and the price per unit can be driven as low as possible.

The other factor determining compute resources is power. Many embedded devices are battery-powered, and may need to run for years without having to replace the cells. This means that processing must be kept to the minimum possible level.

**Crypto, Authentication, and Implied Trust Constraints**  
The lack of compute resources means that embedded systems are not well-matched to the cryptographic identification and authentication technologies that are widely used on computer networks. As embedded systems become more accessible via those networks, however, they need to use cryptoprocessors to ensure confidentiality, integrity, and availability. This is prompting the development of ciphers that do not require such large processing resources.

On PC hardware, a root of trust is established at the hardware level by a TPM. Without this explicit trust anchor, a network has to use an implied trust model. Implied trust means that every device that has been added to the network is trusted, on the assumption that it was added and continues to be operated by a legitimate administrator. Until there is widespread adoption of embedded TPM, embedded networks have to rely on the perimeter security model.

**Network and Range Constraints**  
Minimizing compute functions also has an impact on choices for network connectivity. The Wi-Fi and 4G/5G standards developed for use with computer and smartphone networking use power-hungry antennas to maximize data rates and range, plus processing to encrypt the communications. Networks for embedded systems emphasize power-efficient transfer of small amounts of data with a high degree of reliability and low latency.