# EMBEDDED SYSTEMS COMMUNICATIONS CONSIDERATIONS

#### EMBEDDED SYSTEMS COMMUNICATIONS CONSIDERATIONS

Historically, embedded systems used proprietary vendor communications technologies. As technologies improve and closer integration with IT networks becomes more important, greater use of standardized communication technologies is becoming more prevalent.

**Operational Technology (OT) Networks**  
A cabled network for industrial applications is referred to as an operational technology (OT) network. These typically use either serial data protocols or industrial Ethernet. Industrial Ethernet is optimized for real-time, deterministic transfers. Such networks might use vendor-developed data link and networking protocols, as well as specialist application protocols.

**Cellular Networks**  
A cellular network enables long-distance communication over the same system that supports mobile and smartphones. This is also called **baseband radio**, after the baseband processor that performs the function of a cellular modem. There are several baseband radio technologies:

-   Narrowband-IoT (NB-IoT)—this refers to a low-power version of the Long Term Evolution (LTE) or 4G cellular standard. The signal occupies less bandwidth than regular cellular. This means that data rates are limited (20-100 kbps), but most sensors need to send small packets with low latency, rather than making large data transfers. Narrowband also has greater penetrating power, making it more suitable for use in inaccessible locations, such as tunnels or deep within buildings, where ordinary cellular connectivity would be impossible.
  
-   LTE Machine Type Communication (LTE-M)—this is another low-power system, but supports higher bandwidth (up to about 1 Mbps).
  

While not yet completely standardized, both NB-IoT and LTE-M are designed to be compatible with 5G networks. This means they do not interfere with 5G signaling and can use tower relays developed for 5G. They may support higher data rates, though latency and reliability tend to be more important considerations.

Any LTE-based cellular radio uses a **subscriber identity module (SIM)** card as an identifier. The SIM is issued by a cellular provider, with roaming to allow use of other suppliers' tower relays. As a removable card is not really a suitable form factor for embedded, an eSIM incorporates the same function as a chip on the system board or SoC design.

Encryption of frames between the endpoint and the cell tower and within the backhaul to Internet routers is the responsibility of the network operator. Over the air encryption is performed by encryption schemes devised by the cellular standards body 3GPP. Backhaul security is usually enforced using IPSec. The embedded system can use application layer encryption for additional security.

**Z-Wave and Zigbee**  
Z-Wave and Zigbee are wireless communications protocols used primarily for home automation. Both create a mesh network topology, using low-energy radio waves to communicate from one appliance to another. In **Z-Wave**, devices can be configured to work as repeaters to extend the network but there is a limit of four "hops" between a controller device and an endpoint. Z-Wave uses ~900 Mhz frequencies.

**Zigbee** has similar uses to Z-Wave and is an open source competitor technology to it. The Zigbee Alliance operates certification programs for its various technologies and standards. Zigbee uses the 2.4 GHz frequency band. This higher frequency allows more data bandwidth at the expense of range compared to Z-Wave and the greater risk of interference from other 2.4 GHz radio communications. Zigbee supports more overall devices within a single network and there is no hop limit for communication between devices.

Both Z-Wave and Zigbee have communications encryption. The main threats are from re-pairing attacks and from rogue devices. A re-pairing attack allows a threat actor to discover the network key by forcing a device off the network, causing it to try to re-connect (checkpoint.com/press/2020/the-dark-side-of-smart-lighting-check-point-research-shows-how-business-and-home-networks-can-be-hacked-from-a-lightbulb). If the user connects a rogue device to the network, the system depends on application-level security to prevent the device from compromising higher value targets, such as a smart hub, alarm, or door entry mechanism.