# INTERNET OF THINGS

#### INTERNET OF THINGS

The term **Internet of Things (IoT)** is used to describe a global network of appliances and personal devices that have been equipped with sensors, software, and network connectivity. This compute functionality allows these objects to communicate and pass data between themselves and other traditional systems like computer servers. This is often referred to as Machine to Machine (M2M) communication. Each “thing” is identified with some form of unique serial number or code embedded within its own operating or control system and is able to inter-operate within the existing Internet infrastructure either directly or via an intermediary. An IoT network will generally use the following types of components:

  
-   Hub/control system—IoT devices usually require a communications hub to facilitate Z-Wave or Zigbee networking. There must also be a control system, as most IoT devices are headless, meaning they have no user control interface. This could be a smart hub, with voice control, or a smartphone/PC app.
  
-   Smart devices—IoT endpoints implement the function, such as a smart lightbulb or a video entryphone that you can operate remotely. These devices implement compute, storage, and network functions that are all potentially vulnerable to exploits. Most smart devices use a Linux or Android kernel. Because they're effectively running mini-computers, smart devices are vulnerable to some of the standard attacks associated with web applications and network functions. Integrated peripherals such as cameras or microphones could be compromised to facilitate surveillance.
  
-   Wearables—some IoT devices are designed as personal accessories, such as smart watches, bracelets and pendant fitness monitors, and eyeglasses. Current competing technologies are based on FitBit, Android Wear OS, Samsung's Tizen OS, and Apple iOS, each with their own separate app ecosystems.
  
-   Sensors—IoT devices need to measure all kinds of things, including temperature, light levels, humidity, pressure, proximity, motion, gas/chemicals/smoke, heart/breathing rates, and so on. These are implemented as thermocouples/thermistors, infrared detectors, inductive, photoelectric, and capacitative cells, accelerometers, gyroscopes, and more.
  

Home automation products often use vendor-specific software and networking protocols. As with embedded devices, security features can be poorly documented, and patch management/security response processes of vendors can be inadequate. When they are designed for residential use, IoT devices can suffer from weak defaults. They may be configured to "work" with a minimum of configuration effort. There may be recommended steps to secure the device that the customer never takes.