# Kernel Layers

#### Kernel Layers

The kernel performs various functions to control and manage the operations of a system. It is composed of several layers that operate in kernel space.

Kernel Layer | Function
---------------- | ------------------
System Call Interface (SCI) | Handles system calls sent from user applications to the kernel. This enables user space applications to request services from the kernel space, like processing time and memory allocation.  This layer also enables the kernel to schedule and process system calls and manage multiple system calls simultaneously.
Process management | Handles different processes by allocating separate execution space on the processor and ensuring that the running of one process does not interfere with other processes.  Through scheduling, the kernel implements sharing of processor time for executing multiple processes.
Memory management | Manages the computer's memory, which is one of the complex tasks performed by the kernel. Like processor sharing, the system's memory also needs to be shared among different user space resources.  The kernel maps or allocates the available memory to applications or programs on request and frees the memory automatically when the execution of the programs is complete, so that it can be allocated to other programs.
File system management | Manages the filesystem, which involves storing, organizing, and tracking files and data on a computer.  The kernel also supports a virtual file system (VFS) that provides an abstract view of the underlying data that is organized under complex structures, so that it appears to be a single structure.
Device management | Manages devices by controlling device access and interfacing between user applications and hardware devices of the computer.  When a user space application sends a system call, the kernel reads the request and passes it on to the drivers that manage the activities of that particular device.
