# Install and Configure Kernel Modules

> **EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED**
> 
> _1.2 Given a scenario, install, configure, and monitor kernel modules.  
> 1.3 Given a scenario, configure and verify network connection parameters.  
> 4.1 Given a scenario, analyze system properties and remediate accordingly._

Now that you've explored the Linux kernel, you're ready to install and configure some kernel modules. This will enable you to extend the kernel's functionality for specific purposes.

#### Kernel Modules

A _**kernel module**_ is a system-level object that extends the functionality of the kernel. It can be dynamically loaded into the kernel or unloaded from the kernel when required. It enables the kernel to update or recompile itself without requiring the system to reboot.

The advantages of kernel modules are:

-   They reduce the burden on the kernel because otherwise all of the modules' functionality would have to be added directly to the kernel.
-   Dynamic loading of kernel modules facilitates lower memory consumption.
-   They avoid having to rebuild and reboot the system when new functionality is required.

Kernel module file consists of a .ko extension. Modules built for a specific kernel version may not be compatible with another version of the kernel.

#### THE /usr/lib/ DIRECTORY

The `/usr/lib/` directory contains shared libraries and binaries for general programs and software packages. The files in this directory are not meant to be executed by the user or custom shell scripts. More specifically, the `/usr/lib/modules/` directory contains the modules of different kernel versions that are installed. It holds a directory named after the kernel's version number. Inside this directory, modules are stored across various subdirectories based on the categories they belong to. For example, a Bluetooth driver may be stored in:

`/usr/lib/modules/<kernel version>/kernel/drivers/bluetooth/` 

> _Note: These modules may also be available from the `/lib/modules/` directory._

**_KERNEL MODULE SUBDIRECTORIES_**  
Inside `/usr/lib/modules/<kernel version>/kernel/` are several subdirectories, some of which are described in the following table.

Directory | Contains Modules For
------ | --------
arch | Architecture-specific support.
crypto | Encryption and other cryptographic functions.
drivers | Various types of hardware.
fs | Various types of file systems.
net | Networking components such as firewalls and protocols.