# Kernel Module Management Commands

#### Kernel Module Management Commands

Kernel module management commands enable you to view, load, unload, or modify kernel modules.

Command | Used To
------- | ---------
lsmod | Display the currently loaded kernel modules, their sizes, usage details, and their dependent modules.
modinfo | Display information about a particular kernel module, such as the file name of the module, license, description, author's name, module version number, dependent modules, and other parameters or attributes. The syntax of this command is modinfo \[options\] {module name}
insmod | Install a module into the currently running kernel. This command inserts only the specified module and does not insert any dependent modules. The syntax of this command is insmod {module name}
rmmod | Remove a module from the currently running kernel. The syntax of this command is rmmod {module name}
 

#### THE modprobe COMMAND

The modprobe command is used to add or remove modules from a kernel. This command is capable of loading all the dependent modules before inserting the specified module. It is therefore preferred over using the insmod and rmmod commands.

To add modules using modprobe, use the -a option and specify the modules you want to add. To unload a module, use the -r option and specify the modules you want to remove.

**_SYNTAX_**  
The syntax of the modprobe command is `modprobe [options] [module names]`

**_modprobe COMMAND OPTIONS_**  
In addition to options for adding and removing modules, the modprobe command has more options.

Option | Used To
----- | ---------
\-f | Force the module to be inserted or removed.
\-n | Conduct a dry run, i.e., output results without actually executing operations.
\-s | Print errors to the system log (syslog) rather than stderr.
\-v | Enable verbose mode.