# RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESSES

#### RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESSES

**Risk management** is a process for identifying, assessing, and mitigating vulnerabilities and threats to the essential functions that a business must perform to serve its customers. You can think of this process as being performed over five phases:

1.  Identify mission essential functions—mitigating risk can involve a large amount of expenditure so it is important to focus efforts. Effective risk management must focus on mission essential functions that could cause the whole business to fail if they are not performed. Part of this process involves identifying critical systems and assets that support these functions.
    
2.  Identify vulnerabilities—for each function or workflow (starting with the most critical), analyze systems and assets to discover and list any vulnerabilities or weaknesses to which they may be susceptible.
    
3.  Identify threats—for each function or workflow, identify the threat sources and actors that may take advantage of or exploit or accidentally trigger vulnerabilities.
    
4.  Analyze business impacts—the likelihood of a vulnerability being activated as a security incident by a threat and the impact of that incident on critical systems are the factors used to assess risk. There are quantitative and qualitative methods of analyzing impacts and likelihood.
    
5.  Identify risk response—for each risk, identify possible countermeasures and assess the cost of deploying additional security controls. Most risks require some sort of mitigation, but other types of response might be more appropriate for certain types and level of risks.
    

For each business process and each threat, you must assess the degree of risk that exists. Calculating risk is complex, but the two main variables are likelihood and impact:

-   **Likelihood** of occurrence is the probability of the threat being realized.
-   **Impact** is the severity of the risk if realized as a security incident. This may be determined by factors such as the value of the asset or the cost of disruption if the asset is compromised.

Risk management is complex and treated very differently in companies and institutions of different sizes, and with different regulatory and compliance requirements. Most companies will institute **enterprise risk management (ERM)** policies and procedures, based on frameworks such as NIST's Risk Management Framework (RMF) or ISO 31K. These legislative and framework compliance requirements are often formalized as a Risk and Control Self-Assessment (RCSA). An organization may also contract an external party to lead the process, in which case it is referred to as a Risk and Control Assessment (RCA).

A RCSA is an internal process undertaken by stakeholders to identify risks and the effectiveness with which controls mitigate those risks. RCSAs are often performed through questionnaires and workshops with department managers. The outcome of an RCSA is a report. Up-to-date RCSA reports are critical to the external audit process.