# SINGLE POINTS OF FAILURE

#### SINGLE POINTS OF FAILURE

Each IT system will be supported by hardware assets, such as servers, disk arrays, switches, routers, and so on. Reducing dependencies means the system design can more easily eliminate the sort of weakness that comes from these devices becoming **single points of failure (SPoF)**. A SPoF is an asset that causes the entire workflow to fail if it is damaged or otherwise not available. SPoFs can be mitigated by provisioning redundant components. Metrics for asset reliability can help to determine when and how much redundancy is required. Some of the main KPIs relating to service availability are as follows:

-   **Mean time to failure (MTTF)** and **mean time between failures (MTBF)** represent the expected lifetime of a product. MTTF should be used for non-repairable assets. For example, a hard drive may be described with an MTTF, while a server (which could be repaired by replacing the hard drive) would be described with an MTBF. You will often see MTBF used indiscriminately, however. For most devices, failure is more likely early or late in life, producing the so-called "bathtub curve."

MTTF/MTBF can be used to determine the amount of asset redundancy a system should have. A redundant system can failover to another asset if there is a fault and continue to operate normally. It can also be used to work out how likely failures are to occur.

-   The calculation for MTBF is the total time divided by the number of failures. For example, if you have 10 devices that run for 50 hours and two of them fail, the MTBF is 250 hours/failure (10\*50)/2.

-   The calculation for MTTF for the same test is the total time divided by the number of devices, so (10\*50)/10, with the result being 50 hours/failure.

  

-   **Mean time to repair (MTTR)** is a measure of the time taken to correct a fault so that the system is restored to full operation. This can also be described as mean time to "replace" or "recover." This metric is important in determining the overall recovery time objective (RTO).

> _NIST has published a guide to resiliency and IT contingency planning (SP800-34), available at nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/Legacy/SP/nistspecialpublication800-34r1.pdf._