# DISASTERS

#### DISASTERS

In terms of business continuity, a disaster is an event that could threaten mission essential functions. For example, a privacy breach is a critical incident, but it is probably not a direct threat to business functions. An earthquake that destroys a data center is a disaster-level event. Disaster response involves many of the same principles and procedures as incident response, but at a larger scale.

**Internal versus External**  
An internal disaster is one that is caused by malicious activity or by accident by an employee or contractor—anyone or anything whose presence within the company or organization has been authorized. Internal disaster also encompasses system faults, such as wiring causing a fire. Conversely, external disaster events are caused by threat actors who have no privileged access. External disaster includes disasters that have an impact on the organization through wider environmental or social impacts, such as disruption of public services or impacts to the supply chain.

**Person-Made**  
A person-made disaster event is one where human agency is the primary cause. Typical examples other than devastating cybersecurity incidents include terrorism, war, vandalism, pollution, and arson. There can also be accidental person-made disasters, such as cutting through power or telecoms cabling.

**Environmental**  
An environmental disaster, or natural disaster, is one that could not be prevented through human agency. Environmental disasters include river or sea floods, earthquakes, storms, disease, and so on. Natural disasters may be quite predictable (as is the case with areas prone to flooding or storm damage) or unexpected, and therefore difficult to plan for.

> _Most natural or environmental disasters can also have a human or artificial source. For example, flooding might be more likely because dams are not adequately maintained; a wildfire could be the result of arson or poorly maintained power infrastructure._

**Site Risk Assessment**  
Where cybersecurity generally has financial impacts, site safety can have impacts to life and property. A site risk assessment evaluates exposure to the following types of factor:

-   Risk from disaster events, such as earthquake, flood, and fire. These events can occur naturally or from person-made causes.

-   Risk from disruption to utilities, such as electricity, water, and transportation. These risks are higher in geographically isolated sites.
-   Risk to health and safety from on-premises electromechanical systems or chemicals.