# DISASTER RECOVERY PLANS And FUNCTIONAL RECOVERY PLANS

#### DISASTER RECOVERY PLANS

**Disaster recovery plans (DRPs)** describe the specific procedures to follow to recover a system or site to a working state following a disaster-level event. The DRP should accomplish the following:

1.  Identify scenarios for natural and non-natural disaster and options for protecting systems. Plans need to account for risk (a combination of the likelihood the disaster will occur and the possible impact on the organization) and cost.  
      
    There is no point implementing disaster recovery plans that financially cripple the organization. The business case is made by comparing the cost of recovery measures against the cost of downtime. The recovery plan should not generally exceed the downtime cost.
  
3.  Identify tasks, resources, and responsibilities for responding to a disaster.

-   Who is responsible for doing what? How can they be contacted? What happens if they are not available?
-   Which functions are most critical? Where should effort first be concentrated?
-   What resources are available? Should they be pre-purchased and held in stock? Will the disaster affect availability of supplies?
-   What are the timescales for resumption of normal operations?

  
6.  Train staff in the disaster planning procedures and how to react well to change.

As well as restoring systems, the disaster recovery plan should identify stakeholders who need to be informed about incidents with impacts to life and safety. There may be a legal requirement to inform the police, fire service, or building inspectors about any safety-related or criminal incidents. If third-party or personal data is lost or stolen, the data subjects may need to be informed. If the disaster affects services, customers need to be informed about the time-to-fix and any alternative arrangements that can be made.

#### FUNCTIONAL RECOVERY PLANS

Because disasters are extreme and (hopefully) rare events, it is very difficult to evaluate how effective or functional a recovery plan is. There are four principal methods for assessing the functionality of recovery plans:

-   Walk-throughs, workshops, and orientation seminars—often used to provide basic awareness and training for disaster recovery team members, these exercises describe the contents of DRPs, and other plans, and the roles and responsibilities outlined in those plans.
  
-   Tabletop exercises—staff "ghost" the same procedures as they would in a disaster, without actually creating disaster conditions or applying or changing anything. These are simple to set up but do not provide any sort of practical evidence of things that could go wrong, time to complete, and so on.
  
-   Functional exercises—action-based sessions where employees can validate DRPs by performing scenario-based activities in a simulated environment.
  
-   Full-scale exercises— action-based sessions that reflect real situations, these exercises are held onsite and use real equipment and real personnel as much as possible. Full-scale exercises are often conducted by public agencies, but local organizations might be asked to participate.