# Authentication Attributes

#### AUTHENTICATION ATTRIBUTES

Compared to the three main authentication factors, an authentication attribute is either a non-unique property or a factor that cannot be used independently.

**Somewhere You Are Authentication**  
Location-based authentication measures some statistic about where you are. This could be a geographic location, measured using a device's location service, or it could be by IP address. A device's IP address could be used to refer to a logical network segment, or it could be linked to a geographic location using a geolocation service. Within a premises network, the physical port location, virtual LAN (VLAN), or Wi-Fi network can also be made the basis of location-based authentication.

Location-based authentication is not used as a primary authentication factor, but it may be used as a continuous authentication mechanism or as an access control feature. For example, if a user enters the correct credentials at a VPN gateway but his or her IP address shows him/her to be in a different country than expected, access controls might be applied to restrict the privileges granted or refuse access completely. Another example is where a user appears to login from different geographic locations that travel time would make physically impossible.

**Something You Can Do Authentication**  
Behavioral characteristics, such as the way you walk or the way you hold your smartphone, can uniquely identify you to a considerable degree of activity. Although this factor is impractical to use for primary authentication, it can be used for contextual and continual authentication to ensure that a device continues to be operated by the owner.

**Something You Exhibit Authentication**  
_Something you exhibit_ also refers to behavioral-based authentication and authorization, with specific emphasis on personality traits. For example, the way you use smartphone apps or web search engines might conform to a pattern of behavior that can be captured by machine learning analysis as a statistical template. If someone else uses the device, their behavior will be different, and this anomalous pattern could be used to lock the device and require reauthentication.

**Someone You Know Authentication**  
A someone you know authentication scheme uses a web of trust model, where new users are vouched for by existing users. As the user participates in the network, their identity becomes better established. One example is the decentralized web of trust model, used by Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) as an alternative to PKI ([weboftrust.info/index.html](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/authentication-attributes)).