# Local, Network, and Remote Authentication

#### LOCAL, NETWORK, AND REMOTE AUTHENTICATION

One of the most important features of an operating system is the _authentication provider_, which is the software architecture and code that underpins the mechanism by which the user is authenticated before starting a shell. This is usually described as a login (Linux) or a logon or sign-in (Microsoft). Knowledge-based authentication, using a password or personal identification number (PIN), is the default authentication provider for most operating systems.

Knowledge-based authentication relies on cryptographic hashes. A plaintext password is not usually transmitted or stored in a credential database because of the risk of compromise. Instead, the password is stored as a cryptographic hash. When a user enters a password to log in, an authenticator converts what is typed into a hash and transmits that to an authority. The authority compares the submitted hash to the one in the database and authenticates the subject only if they match.

**Windows Authentication**  
Windows authentication involves a complex architecture of components ([docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/security/windows-authentication/credentials-processes-in-windows-authentication](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/local-network-and-remote-authentication)), but the following three scenarios are typical:

-   Windows local sign-in—the Local Security Authority (LSA) compares the submitted credential to a hash stored in the Security Accounts Manager (SAM) database, which is part of the registry. This is also referred to as _interactive logon_.
    
-   Windows network sign-in—the LSA can pass the credentials for authentication to a network service. The preferred system for network authentication is based on Kerberos, but legacy network applications might use **NT LAN Manager (NTLM) authentication**.
    
-   Remote sign-in—if the user's device is not connected to the local network, authentication can take place over some type of virtual private network (VPN) or web portal.
    

**Linux Authentication**  
In Linux, local user account names are stored in `/etc/passwd`. When a user logs in to a local interactive shell, the password is checked against a hash stored in `/etc/shadow`. Interactive login over a network is typically accomplished using Secure Shell (SSH). With SSH, the user can be authenticated using cryptographic keys instead of a password.

A **pluggable authentication module (PAM)** is a package for enabling different authentication providers, such as smart-card login ([tecmint.com/configure-pam-in-centos-ubuntu-linux](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/local-network-and-remote-authentication)). The PAM framework can also be used to implement authentication to network servers.

**Single Sign-On (SSO)**  
A **single sign-on (SSO)** system allows the user to authenticate once to a local device and be authenticated to compatible application servers without having to enter credentials again. In Windows, SSO is provided by the Kerberos framework.