# Password Attacks

#### PASSWORD ATTACKS

When a user chooses a password, the password is converted to a hash using a cryptographic function, such as MD5 or SHA. This means that, in theory, no one except the user (not even the system administrator) knows the password, because the plaintext should not be recoverable from the hash.

**Plaintext/Unencrypted Attacks**  
A _plaintext/unencrypted_ attack exploits password storage or a network authentication protocol that does not use encryption. Examples include PAP, basic HTTP/FTP authentication, and Telnet. These protocols must not be used. Passwords must never be saved to an unmanaged file. One common source of credential breaches is passwords embedded in application code that has subsequently been uploaded to a public repository.

**Online Attacks**  
An _online password_ attack is where the threat actor interacts with the authentication service directly—a web login form or VPN gateway, for instance. The attacker submits passwords using either a database of known passwords (and variations) or a list of passwords that have been cracked offline.

> _Also, be aware that there are databases of username and password/password hash combinations for multiple accounts stored across the Internet. These details derive from successful hacks of various companies' systems. These databases can be searched using a site such as [haveibeenpwned.com.](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/password-attacks)_

An online password attack can show up in audit logs as repeatedly failed logons and then a successful logon, or as successful logon attempts at unusual times or locations. Apart from ensuring the use of strong passwords by users, online password attacks can be mitigated by restricting the number or rate of logon attempts, and by shunning logon attempts from known bad IP addresses.

> _Note that restricting logons can be turned into a vulnerability as it exposes the account to denial of service attacks. The attacker keeps trying to authenticate, locking out valid users._

**Password Spraying**  
**Password spraying** is a horizontal brute-force online attack. This means that the attacker chooses one or more common passwords (for example, `password` or `123456`) and tries them in conjunction with multiple usernames.

**Offline Attacks**  
An _offline attack_ means that the attacker has managed to obtain a database of password hashes, such as `%SystemRoot%\System32\config\SAM`, `%SystemRoot%\NTDS\NTDS.DIT` (the Active Directory credential store), or `/etc/shadow`. Once the password database has been obtained, the cracker does not interact with the authentication system. The only indicator of this type of attack (other than misuse of the account in the event of a successful attack) is a file system audit log that records the malicious account accessing one of these files. Threat actors can also read credentials from host memory, in which case the only reliable indicator might be the presence of attack tools on a host.

If the attacker cannot obtain a database of passwords, a packet sniffer might be used to obtain the client response to a server challenge in a protocol such as NTLM or CHAP/MS-CHAP. Although these protocols avoid sending the hash of the password directly, the response is derived from it in some way. Password crackers can exploit weaknesses in a protocol to calculate the hash and match it to a dictionary word or brute force it.