# Authentication Management

#### AUTHENTICATION MANAGEMENT

Users often adopt poor credential management practices that are very hard to control, such as using the same password for corporate networks and consumer websites. This makes enterprise network security vulnerable to data breaches from these websites. An authentication management solution for passwords mitigates this risk by using a device or service as a proxy for credential storage. The manager generates a unique, strong password for each web-based account. The user authorizes the manger to authenticate with each site using a master password.

Password managers can be implemented with a hardware token or as a software app:

-   Password key—USB tokens for connecting to PCs and smartphones. Some can use nearfield communications (NFC) or Bluetooth as well as physical connectivity ([theverge.com/2019/2/22/18235173/the-best-hardware-security-keys-yubico-titan-key-u2f](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/authentication-management)).
    
-   Password vault—software-based password manager, typically using a cloud service to allow access from any device ([pcmag.com/picks/the-best-password-managers](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/authentication-management)). A USB key is also likely to use a vault for backup. Most operating systems and browsers implement native password vaults. Examples include Windows Credential Manager and Apple's iCloud Keychain ([imore.com/icloud-keychain](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/authentication-management)).
    

> _Authentication management products can be certified under the Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS 140-2). This provides assurance that the cryptographic implementation meets a certain level of robustness._