# Terminal Access Controller Access-Control System

#### TERMINAL ACCESS CONTROLLER ACCESS-CONTROL SYSTEM

RADIUS is used primarily for network access control. AAA services are also used for the purpose of centralizing logins for the administrative accounts for network appliances. This allows network administrators to be allocated specific privileges on each switch, router, access point, and firewall. Whereas RADIUS can be used for this network appliance administration role, the Cisco-developed **Terminal Access Controller Access-Control System Plus (TACACS+)** is specifically designed for this purpose ([https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/support/docs/security-vpn/remote-authentication-dial-user-service-radius/13838-10.html](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/terminal-access-controller-access-control-system)):

-   TACACS+ uses TCP communications (over port 49), and this reliable, connection-oriented delivery makes it easier to detect when a server is down.
    
-   All the data in TACACS+ packets is encrypted (except for the header identifying the packet as TACACS+ data), rather than just the authentication data. This ensures confidentiality and integrity when transferring critical network infrastructure data.
    
-   Authentication, authorization, and accounting functions are discrete. Many device management tasks require reauthentication (similar to having to re-enter a password for sudo or UAC) and per-command authorizations and privileges for users, groups, and roles. TACACS+ supports this workflow better than RADIUS.