# Behavioral Technologies

#### BEHAVIORAL TECHNOLOGIES

Something you do refers to behavioral biometric pattern recognition. Rather than scan some attribute of your body, a template is created by analyzing a behavior, such as typing, writing a signature, or walking/moving. The variations in motion, pressure, or gait are supposed to uniquely verify each individual. In practice, however, these methods are subject to higher error rates, and are much more troublesome for a subject to perform.

-   Voice recognition—relatively cheap, as the hardware and software required are built into many standard PCs and mobiles. However, obtaining an accurate template can be difficult and time-consuming. Background noise and other environmental factors can also interfere with logon. Voice is also subject to impersonation.
    
-   **Gait analysis**—produces a template from human movement (locomotion). The technologies can either be camera-based or use smartphone features, such as an accelerometer and gyroscope.
    
-   Signature recognition—signatures are relatively easy to duplicate, but it is more difficult to fake the actual signing process. Signature matching records the user applying their signature (stroke, speed, and pressure of the stylus).
    
-   Typing—matches the speed and pattern of a user’s input of a passphrase.
    

Some biometric and behavioral technologies might be used for purposes other than logon authentication:

-   _Biometric identification_ refers to matching people to a database, as opposed to authenticating them per se. For example, if an individual crossing the floor of the data center does not produce a match for gait analysis, the system may raise a security alert ([g4s.com/en-us/media/news/2017/12/06/keeping-data-centers-secure](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/behavioral-technologies)).
    
-   _Continuous authentication_ verifies that the user who logged on is still operating the device. For example, if a user successfully authenticates to a smartphone using a fingerprint, the device continues to monitor key motion and pressure statistics as the device is held and manipulated. If this deviates from the baseline, detection system would lock the phone. This sort of technology is not available on the market (at the time of writing), but it is the subject of numerous research projects.