# X vs. Wayland

#### X vs. Wayland

Wayland offers several improvements over X, including:

-   In X, the X server must determine which window an event applies to. It can't always do this correctly, because the separate compositor controls how the window is redrawn through actions like resizing and rotation—information that the X server doesn't necessarily understand. Because the compositor and server are one in Wayland, this is not an issue.
-   In X, the compositor must fetch event data from the server, which can introduce latency. In Wayland, the compositor receives events directly from the client, mitigating latency issues.
-   Wayland simplifies the graphical rendering process by enabling the client to perform its own rendering.
-   Although Wayland is not network-aware in the same way as X, it can still leverage remote desktop protocols for controlling a GUI environment over a network.
-   Older implementations of X do not isolate the data I/O of each window, whereas Wayland does. This helps ensure the security of data.

**_DISADVANTAGES TO WAYLAND_**  
Although Wayland improves upon X in almost every way, there are still some issues with Wayland. For example, Canonical made Wayland the default display server for Ubuntu 17.10 in October 2017. In April 2018, for the release of Ubuntu 18.04, Canonical announced that it was switching back to X.Org Server for three primary reasons:

-   Screen sharing software tends to work better under X.Org Server than Wayland.
-   Remote desktop software tends to work better under X.Org Server than Wayland.
-   It's easier to recover from crashes under X.Org Server than Wayland. However, Canonical still expressed its commitment to Wayland in the future.