# Console Redirection and SSH Port Forwarding

#### Console Redirection

**_Console redirection_** is the process of forwarding input and output through a serial connection rather than through any I/O peripherals that are directly attached to the system. This enables the system with console redirection to send display output data along a serial cable and eventually to a remote client. Likewise, the remote client can redirect its keyboard input along a serial connection so that it gets sent to the remote server.

Ultimately, console redirection enables administrators to remotely configure systems in a pre-boot environment like BIOS/UEFI. Without an operating system like Linux loaded, typical methods of remote access like SSH and remote desktop will not be available. Using console redirection, administrators can change the BIOS/UEFI settings of multiple machines over a network, even when those machines have no I/O devices directly attached.

> _Note: Not all systems support console redirection in the BIOS/UEFI._

#### SSH Port Forwarding

**_Secure Shell (SSH)_** is a remote access protocol that encrypts transmissions over a network. It is the most commonly used protocol for accessing the command-line interface of a Linux server. You can use SSH to issue commands to the server as if you were typing into its CLI directly. It can be used as a tunnel to carry other kinds of network communications securely, including remote desktop traffic.

The process of tunneling an application through SSH to secure it in transmission is called **_SSH port forwarding_**. There are two main types: local and remote forwarding. In local forwarding, the local client listens for connections on a port, and then tunnels any active connection to a remote server using SSH. One use case for local forwarding is to remotely access a system over the Internet using a protocol like VNC. When you connect to the VNC server with your local VNC client, that traffic (usually over a port like 5900) will be forwarded through SSH, securing it.

In remote forwarding, the SSH server forwards inbound client traffic to another system on a different port. One use case for remote forwarding is setting up a VNC server on a local system and forwarding all VNC traffic to a port on a remote client. Whenever the remote client connects to this port using localhost (their own network address), they can establish a remote desktop connection with the local server.

**_X FORWARDING_**  
As you know, X (X11) is network-aware and can enable clients to access GUI elements over a network. You can forward X traffic through an SSH tunnel in order to encrypt these communications.