# Manage Services

> **EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED**
> 
> _2.4 Given a scenario, manage services.  
> 4.1 Given a scenario, analyze system properties and remediate accordingly._

Services are how the operating system provides functionality to users and applications, and as such, can be managed just as any other part of Linux. In this topic, you'll start and stop services to control available system functionality.

#### Services and Daemons

A Linux **_service_** is software that responds to requests from other programs to provide some sort of specialized functionality. Services can be broadly classified as critical services and non-critical services. Critical services are the core services that are vital for the functioning of the Linux system. Non-critical services are services that are initiated by applications installed on the system.

Most services are implemented in the form of **_daemons_**, which are running programs (i.e., processes) that operate in the background without the need for human intervention. Daemons lie dormant until an event triggers them into activity. Some daemons operate at regular intervals. Most daemons are started when the system boots. Daemons can be started by the operating system, by applications, or manually by the user.

> _Note: The terms "service" and "daemon" are often used interchangeably. For example, in Windows, a service is the equivalent of a Linux daemon._

#### Service Management

**_Service management_** is the lifecycle process of starting services, modifying their running state, and stopping them. The system can manage services itself, or users can manage services manually depending on their needs. Service management is important in operating systems like Linux because it enables administrators to configure the functionality that their servers provide. It can also help administrators diagnose and troubleshoot issues that affect or are caused by running programs.

#### System Initialization

**_System initialization_** is the process that begins when the kernel first loads. It involves the loading of the operating system and its various components, including the boot process. System initialization is carried out by an **_init_** daemon in Linux—the "parent of all processes." The init daemon refers to a configuration file and initiates the processes listed in it. This prepares the system to run the required software. The init daemon runs continuously until the system is powered off, and programs on the system will not run without it.

On Linux, there are two main methods that initialize a system: SysVinit and systemd. The method that is active on your Linux system will affect how you manage services on that system.

> _Note: Here, "init daemon" refers generally to a daemon that performs system initialization, not to the specific SysVinit daemon (named `init`)._
> 
> _Note: Older versions of Ubuntu also had their own init method called Upstart._