# Example of Switching Targets

#### Example of Switching Targets

One example of using the systemctl command to change targets is when an administrator needs to work in a GUI for a short period of time. It's common to configure a Linux server to boot by default to the CLI (`multi-user.target`). An administrator might switch to the GUI (`graphical.target`) for a particular task, and then switch the server back to `multi-user.target` when the task is complete. The administrator would then leave the server in the more efficient CLI configuration after the task.

The process can be stepped out as follows:

1.  The server is started to the multi-user.target by default.
2.  The administrator logs on to the server at the CLI and enters the following command to start the GUI: systemctl isolate graphical.target
3.  The administrator completes their administrative tasks.
4.  The administrator enters the following command to return the server to the more efficient CLI configuration: `systemctl isolate multi-user.target`

**_THE hostnamectl COMMAND_**  

In most cases, `systemctl` is used to control services, but there are some additional systemd commands that you can use. For example, hostnamectl enables you to view the system's network hostname and other information about the system's hardware and the Linux kernel it is running. You can also use this command to change the system's hostname.

The syntax of the `hostnamectl` command is `hostnamectl [options] [subcommand] [arguments]`

For example, to set the hostname to server01:

```Shell
hostnamectl set-hostname server01
```