# SysVinit and Runlevels

#### SysVinit and Runlevels

**_SysVinit_** is an older init method that has been largely replaced by systemd. However, some distributions still support SysVinit. Like systemd, SysVinit provides you with various tools to manage services and the state of the system.

Aside from systemd's improvements, one major difference between it and SysVinit is that SysVinit has **_runlevels_**. Runlevels control the state of the operating system in much the same way that systemd targets do; they determine what types of daemons should be running in order to create a specific type of environment. In fact, systemd targets were created to map to existing runlevels. Like with systemd targets, you can change a system's runlevel and set a default.

> _Note: SysVinit was popularized in the UNIX System V family of operating systems, pronounced "System Five."_

#### Runlevels vs. Targets

The following table compares SysVinit runlevels with their equivalent systemd targets.

SysVinit Runlevel | systemd Target | Description
----- | ------- | -----
0 | poweroff.target | Halts (shuts down) the system.
1 | rescue.target | Starts single-user mode.
2 | multi-user.target | Starts multi-user mode without remote networking. Loads a command-line interface (CLI). 
3 | multi-user.target | Starts multi-user mode with remote networking. Loads a CLI.
4 | multi-user.target | Not used.
5 | graphical.target | Starts multi-user mode with networking and GUI capabilities. Loads a desktop environment.
6 | reboot.target | Reboots the system.

  

**_SINGLE-USER MODE_**  
**_Single-user mode_** boots the operating system into an environment where the superuser must log in. Networking is also disabled in single-user mode, and most partitions are not mounted. It is typically used to troubleshoot issues with networking or issues that prevent you from booting into the normal multi-user environment.

On some systems, particularly those using the original GRUB bootloader, it is possible to reset the root password from single-user mode in case it is lost. However, with GRUB 2, you must edit the bootloader configuration at the boot menu so that it initializes a privileged shell that doesn't require a password. From this shell, you can reset the root user's password.