# THE telinit AND runlevel COMMANDS

#### THE telinit AND runlevel COMMANDS

The `telinit` command enables you to switch the current runlevel of the system. On systemd environments, the `telinit` command will be translated into the appropriate target request. The runlevel command prints the previous and current runlevel of the system, each separated by a space.

**_SYNTAX_**  
The syntax of the telinit command is `telinit [options] {runlevel}`

#### THE /etc/inittab FILE

The `/etc/inittab` file stores details of various processes related to system initialization on a SysVinit system. It also stores details of the runlevels in use. The init daemon reads from this file to determine what runlevel to boot into, what daemons to start, and what to do if the runlevel changes. Each entry in the `/etc/inittab` file takes the format:

```Shell
id:rstate:action:process
``` 

The id is just a unique identifier for the entry; rstate defines what runlevels the entry applies to; and action specifies one of several tasks that determine how SysVinit handles the command defined in the process field.

#### THE /etc/init.d/ DIRECTORY

The `/etc/init.d/` directory stores initialization scripts for services. These scripts control the initiation of services in a particular runlevel. The scripts are invoked from the `/etc/inittab` file when the system initialization begins, using the symbolic links found in the file. SysVinit scripts are highly flexible and can be configured according to the needs of the user.

Depending on the distribution, SysVinit scripts may instead be stored in `/etc/rc.d/` or this directory may contain symbolic links to the `/etc/init.d/` directory.

**_THE /etc/rc.local FILE_**  

The `/etc/rc.local` file is executed at the end of the init boot process, typically used to start custom services. However, this file is rarely used and is not even supported in some distributions that still use SysVinit.