# Process Priorities and nice, renice COMMAND

#### Process Priorities

The OS provides a scheduler that determines what processes to give CPU time to. The scheduler is usually effective at assigning CPU time, but not every decision it makes is optimal. In some cases, you may need to manually tell the CPU to prioritize certain processes over others. It may be more crucial for one process to get done quickly over another, less-crucial process; you may want to de-prioritize processes started by unprivileged users; a process may be consuming too many resources and causing system sluggishness; etc.

Processes are prioritized based on a number from -20 to 19, called a nice value or niceness value. The lower the number, the higher the priority. A process with a nice value of -18 will be more likely to be given CPU time than a process with a nice value of 15. A process inherits a nice value from its parent, and by default, that value is 0.

#### THE nice COMMAND

The nice command enables you to run a command with a different nice value than the default. The -n option increments the nice value by the given integer; if you don't provide an integer, then the command will assume an increment of 10. By running nice without any options, you'll see the default nice value. You must have the root user authority to run a command at a higher priority. Once lowered, the priority for any process cannot be increased by normal users, even if they own the process.

**_SYNTAX_**  
The syntax of the `nice` command is `nice [-n {nice value increment}] [command]`

#### THE renice COMMAND

Whereas nice is used to start a new process, the renice command enables you to alter the scheduling priority of an already running process. You use the -n option to specify the new nice value that you want the process to have.

When you renice a process group with the -g option, it causes all processes in the process group to have their nice value altered. When you renice a user with the -u option, it alters the nice value of all processes owned by the user. By default, the processes affected are specified by their PIDs.

**_SYNTAX_**  
The syntax of the `renice` command is `renice [-n {nice value}] [options] {identifier}`