# Foreground and Background Processes

#### Foreground and Background Processes

In Bash, most commands will be executed in the foreground. The effect of this is that the command prompt will be "consumed" until the command finishes processing. For simple commands, like the date command, this isn't a problem. For longer commands or for scripts, this can be an issue. For example, if you execute a backup script that you know will take 45 minutes to complete, you will not be able to enter a command in that shell until the script has finished.

It is possible to run commands in the background, where they still execute but do not consume the shell. You can use the `fg` (foreground) and the `bg` (background) commands to move the process into view.

#### Management of Foreground and Background Processes

The following is an example of how to manage a long-running script:

1.  First, you would execute the script in the background by entering backup-script.sh &
2.  Next, you would use the jobs command to discover the job ID number of the script. This command would also show you the current status of the job (running, for example).
3.  You could move the script's execution into the foreground by entering the fg % command. This might be useful if the script includes interactive prompts.
4.  You then press Ctrl+Z to temporarily pause the job, freeing the command prompt.
5.  You move the script back into the background by entering bg %

**_COMMAND SUMMARY_**  

The following table summarizes the purpose of each command used in the previous example.

Command | Used To
-------- | --------
fg %{job ID} | Bring a job to the foreground.
Ctrl+Z | Halt a job temporarily so you can use the bg command.
bg %{job ID} | Push a job to the background.
& | Start a command running in the background when added to the end of a command.
  

#### THE nohup COMMAND

The nohup ("no hangup") command prevents a process from ending when the user logs off. For example, if an administrator launches a backup script, and then logs off the system, the script would stop running. By placing the nohup command in front of the normal command, the script would continue even after the administrator logged off.

**_SYNTAX_**  
The syntax of the `nohup` command is `nohup {command/script}`