# Kill Commands

#### Kill Commands

Different commands are used to send signals to processes to terminate or "kill" them. This is necessary when a process becomes unresponsive (hangs), causes system instability, or fails to relinquish control over a file you're trying to modify.

Command | Description
----- | ------
kill | Sends any specified signal, or by default the termination signal, to one or more processes. The PID must be specified as the argument.  The syntax of this command is kill \[options\] {PID}
pkill | Sends any specified signal, or by default the termination signal, to processes based on a matching pattern. Similar to the pgrepcommand, but actually sends a signal instead of printing to stdout. For example, if you start top in one terminal, and then issue pkill top in another terminal, you'll see that top terminates. The command matched a name pattern rather than a process ID.  The syntax of this command is pkill \[options\] {pattern}
killall | Sends any specified signal, or the default termination signal, to all processes matching the name specified. Similar to pkill but has a few functional differences, such as matching process names exactly.  The syntax of this command is killall \[options\] {process name}

  
**_USING THE PID NUMBER TO TERMINATE PROCESSES_**  
You can use the `kill` command with the process table to end processes. By entering `kill` followed by the PID, you can terminate specific processes. However, the process table may display processes that do not belong to you. As a user, you can use the kill command only with processes that you own. As root, you can kill any processes.