# Kill Signals

#### Kill Signals

There are many ways to kill a process, each one mapped to a signal. This signal determines how to kill the process. Some signals are more appropriate than others in certain situations. For example, you may wish to terminate a process gracefully, giving it time to clean up any last activities. However, some processes will ignore this signal or simply fail to terminate in a reasonable amount of time. For that, you may have to issue a more aggressive signal.

There are many different kill signals. Each signal has a name and one or more corresponding number values; you can use either with the kill command. Some of the most common signals are described in the following table.

Signal | Value(s) | Used To
------ | ----- | -------
SIGINT | 2 | Interrupt a process from the terminal, enabling it to end gracefully. The signal can be caught or ignored. This is the same as pressing Ctrl+C at a terminal; a process might change this shortcut behavior, however.
SIGKILL | 9 | Kill the process immediately. The signal cannot be caught or ignored. This is typically used as a last resort.
SIGTERM | 15 | Terminate a process, enabling it to end gracefully. The signal can be caught or ignored. This is typically sent from kill or another program and not the terminal.
SIGSTOP | 17, 19, 23 | Pause a process. The signal cannot be caught or ignored. This is typically sent from kill or another program and not the terminal.
SIGSTP | 18, 20, 24 | Pause a process from the terminal. The signal can be caught or ignored. This is the same as pressing Ctrl+Zat a terminal; a process might change this shortcut behavior, however.

  
**_EXAMPLES_**  
The following are some examples of implementing kill signals. To terminate a process with ID 921 gracefully:

```Shell
kill 15 921
``` 

Failing that, to kill the process immediately:

```Shell
kill 9 921
``` 

Alternatively, to pause rather than remove the process entirely:

```Shell
kill 17 921
```