# OOM Killer

#### OOM Killer

The **_out-of-memory (OOM) killer_** is a feature of the Linux kernel that determines what process(es) to kill when the system is extremely low on memory. The OOM killer will continue to kill processes until enough memory is free for the kernel and the system to run smoothly. Rather than killing processes at random, the OOM killer leverages an algorithm that assigns each process an OOM score. The higher the score, the higher chance the process has of being killed during an OOM event. The assignment algorithm considers what processes will free up the greatest memory when killed, as well as what processes are least important for system stability. It then assigns scores based on what it determines to be the most optimal targets for termination.

Although this mechanism is mostly automated by the kernel, you do have the ability to control some of its behavior. You can mount the oom control group at the desired mount point. If, for example, you want to designate a group of processes as the first to be killed, you can create a directory at this mount point and create a tasks file in this directory that lists the PIDs of the relevant processes. Then, create an oom.priority file with a high integer value like 256 to give the processes a higher priority for the OOM killer. Or, to prevent the processes from being killed entirely, give 0 as the priority value.

> _Note: Adding more memory or reducing workload is a more thorough and permanent solution than relying on the OOM killer._