# Compare and Contrast Information Security Roles

> **EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED**
> 
> _This topic provides background information about the role of security professionals and does not cover a specific exam objective._

To be successful and credible as a security professional, you should understand security in business starting from the ground up. You should also know the key security terms and ideas used by other security experts in technical documents and in trade publications. Security implementations are constructed from fundamental building blocks, just like a large building is constructed from individual bricks. This topic will help you understand those building blocks so that you can use them as the foundation for your security career.

#### **INFORMATION SECURITY**

Information security (or infosec) refers to the protection of data resources from unauthorized access, attack, theft, or damage. Data may be vulnerable because of the way it is stored, the way it is transferred, or the way it is processed. The systems used to store, transmit, and process data must demonstrate the properties of security. Secure information has three properties, often referred to as the **CIA Triad:**

-   **Confidentiality** means that certain information should only be known to certain people.
    
-   **Integrity** means that the data is stored and transferred as intended and that any modification is authorized.
    
-   **Availability** means that information is accessible to those authorized to view or modify it.
    

> _The triad can also be referred to as "AIC" to avoid confusion with the Central Intelligence Agency._

Some security models and researchers identify other properties that secure systems should exhibit. The most important of these is non-repudiation. **Non-repudiation** means that a subject cannot deny doing something, such as creating, modifying, or sending a resource. For example, a legal document, such as a will, must usually be witnessed when it is signed. If there is a dispute about whether the document was correctly executed, the witness can provide evidence that it was.