# Information Security Roles and Responsibilities

#### INFORMATION SECURITY ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

A security policy is a formalized statement that defines how security will be implemented within an organization. It describes the means the organization will take to protect the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of sensitive data and resources. It often consists of multiple individual policies. The implementation of a security policy to support the goals of the CIA triad might be very different for a school, a multinational accountancy firm, or a machine tool manufacturer. However, each of these organizations, or any other organization (in any sector of the economy, whether profit-making or non-profit-making) should have the same interest in ensuring that its employees, equipment, and data are secure against attack or damage.

As part of the process of adopting an effective organizational security posture, employees must be aware of their responsibilities. The structure of security responsibilities will depend on the size and hierarchy of an organization, but these roles are typical.

-   Overall internal responsibility for security might be allocated to a dedicated department, run by a Director of Security, Chief Security Officer (CSO), or Chief Information Security Officer (CISO). Historically, responsibility for security might have been allocated to an existing business unit, such as Information and Communications Technology (ICT) or accounting. However, the goals of a network manager are not always well-aligned with the goals of security; network management focuses on availability over confidentiality. Consequently, security is increasingly thought of as a dedicated function or business unit with its own management structure.
-   Managers may have responsibility for a domain, such as building control, ICT, or accounting.
-   Technical and specialist staff have responsibility for implementing, maintaining, and monitoring the policy. Security might be made a core competency of systems and network administrators, or there may be dedicated security administrators. One such job title is **Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO).**
-   Non-technical staff have the responsibility of complying with policy and with any relevant legislation.
-   External responsibility for security (due care or liability) lies mainly with directors or owners, though again it is important to note that all employees share some measure of responsibility.

> NIST's National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education (NICE) categorizes job tasks and job roles within the cybersecurity industry _(gov/itl/applied-cybersecurity/nice/nice-framework-resource-center)._