# NIST Cybersecurity Framework

#### NIST CYBERSECURITY FRAMEWORK

A **cybersecurity framework (CSF)** is a list of activities and objectives undertaken to mitigate risks. The use of a framework allows an organization to make an objective statement of its current cybersecurity capabilities, identify a target level of capability, and prioritize investments to achieve that target. This is valuable for giving a structure to internal risk management procedures and provides an externally verifiable statement of regulatory compliance. Frameworks are also important because they save an organization from building its security program in a vacuum, or from building the program on a foundation that fails to account for important security concepts.

There are many different frameworks, each of which categorize cybersecurity activities and controls in slightly different ways. These frameworks are non-regulatory in the sense that they do not attempt to address the specific regulations of a specific industry but represent "best practice" in IT security governance generally. Most organizations will have historically chosen a particular framework; some may use multiple frameworks in conjunction.

Most frameworks are developed for an international audience; others are focused on a domestic national audience. Most of the frameworks are associated with certification programs to show that staff and consultants can apply the methodologies successfully.

The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) is a relatively new addition to the IT governance space and distinct from other frameworks by focusing exclusively on IT security, rather than IT service provision more generally ([nist.gov/cyberframework](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/nist-cybersecurity-framework)). It is developed for a US audience and focuses somewhat on US government, but its recommendations can be adapted for other countries and types of organizations.

NIST's Risk Management Framework (RMF) pre-dates the CSF. Where the CSF focuses on practical cybersecurity for businesses, the RMF is more prescriptive and principally intended for use by federal agencies ([csrc.nist.gov/projects/risk-management/rmf-overview](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/nist-cybersecurity-framework)).

As well as its cybersecurity and risk frameworks, NIST is responsible for issuing the Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) plus advisory guides called Special Publications ([csrc.nist.gov/publications/sp](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/nist-cybersecurity-framework)). Many of the standards and technologies covered in CompTIA Security+ are discussed in these documents.