# XML AND LDAP INJECTION ATTACKS

#### XML AND LDAP INJECTION ATTACKS

An injection attack can target other types of protocols where the application takes user input to construct a query, filter, or document.

**Extensible Markup Language (XML) Injection**  
**Extensible Markup Language (XML)** is used by apps for authentication and authorizations, and for other types of data exchange and uploading. Data submitted via XML with no encryption or input validation is vulnerable to spoofing, request forgery, and injection of arbitrary data or code. For example, an XML External Entity (XXE) attack embeds a request for a local resource (owasp.org/www-community/vulnerabilities/XML\_External\_Entity\_(XXE)\_Processing).

```XML
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE foo [<!ELEMENT foo ANY ><!ENTITY bar SYSTEM "file:///etc/config"> ]>

<bar>&bar;</bar>
``` 

This defines an entity named bar that refers to a local file path. A successful attack will return the contents of `/etc/config` as part of the response.

**Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) Injection**  
The **Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP)** is another example of a query language. LDAP is specifically used to read and write network directory databases. A threat actor could exploit either unauthenticated access or a vulnerability in a client app to submit arbitrary LDAP queries. This could allow accounts to be created or deleted, or for the attacker to change authorizations and privileges (owasp.org/www-community/attacks/LDAP\_Injection).

LDAP filters are constructed from (name=value) attribute pairs delimited by parentheses and the logical operators AND (&) and OR (|). Adding filter parameters as unsanitized input can bypass access controls. For example, if a web form authenticates to an LDAP directory with the valid credentials Bob and `Pa$$w0rd`, it may construct a query such as this from the user input:

```Markdown
(&(username=Bob)(password=Pa$$w0rd))
``` 

Both parameters must be true for the login to be accepted. If the form input is not sanitized, a threat actor could bypass the password check by entering a valid username plus an LDAP filter string, such as **bob)(&))**. This causes the password filter to be dropped for a condition that is always true:

- ```Markdown
(&(username=Bob)(&))
```