# SECURE CODING TECHNIQUES

#### SECURE CODING TECHNIQUES

The security considerations for new programming technologies should be well understood and tested before deployment. One of the challenges of application development is that the pressure to release a solution often trumps any requirement to ensure that the application is secure. A legacy software design process might be heavily focused on highly visible elements, such as functionality, performance, and cost. Modern development practices use a security development life cycle running in parallel or integrated with the focus on software functionality and usability. Examples include Microsoft's SDL (microsoft.com/en-us/securityengineering/sdl) and the OWASP Software Assurance Maturity Model (owasp.org/www-project-samm) and Security Knowledge Framework (owasp.org/www-project-security-knowledge-framework). OWASP also collates descriptions of specific vulnerabilities, exploits, and mitigation techniques, such as the OWASP Top 10 (owasp.org/www-project-top-ten).

Some of the most important coding practices are input validation, output encoding, and error handling.

**Input Validation**  
A primary vector for attacking applications is to exploit faulty **input validation**. Input could include user data entered into a form or URL passed by another application as a URL or HTTP header. Malicious input could be crafted to perform an overflow attack or some type of script or SQL injection attack. To mitigate this risk, all input methods should be documented with a view to reducing the potential attack surface exposed by the application. There must be routines to check user input, and anything that does not conform to what is required must be rejected.

**Normalization and Output Encoding**  
Where an application accepts string input, the input should be subjected to normalization procedures before being accepted. **Normalization** means that a string is stripped of illegal characters or substrings and converted to the accepted character set. This ensures that the string is in a format that can be processed correctly by the input validation routines.

When user-generated strings are passed through different contexts in a web application—between HTTP, JavaScript, PHP, and SQL for instance—each with potentially different canonicalization schemes, it is extremely difficult to ensure that characters that would facilitate script injection by XSS have been rendered safe. **Output encoding** means that the string is re-encoded safely for the context in which it is being used. For example, a web form might perform input validation at the client, but when it reaches the server, a PHP function performs output encoding before composing an SQL statement. Similarly, when a string is delivered from a database using SQL, a JavaScript function would perform output encoding to render the string using safe HTML entities (**cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Cross\_Site\_Scripting\_Prevention\_Cheat\_Sheet.html**).