# SERVER-SIDE VERSUS CLIENT-SIDE VALIDATION

#### SERVER-SIDE VERSUS CLIENT-SIDE VALIDATION

A web application (or any other client-server application) can be designed to perform code execution and input validation locally (on the client) or remotely (on the server). An example of client-side execution is a document object model (DOM) script to render the page using dynamic elements from user input. Applications may use both techniques for different functions. The main issue with client-side validation is that the client will always be more vulnerable to some sort of malware interfering with the validation process. The main issue with server-side validation is that it can be time-consuming, as it may involve multiple transactions between the server and client. Consequently, client-side validation is usually restricted to informing the user that there is some sort of problem with the input before submitting it to the server. Even after passing client-side validation, the input will still undergo server-side validation before it can be posted (accepted). Relying on client-side validation only is poor programming practice.

#### WEB APPLICATION SECURITY

With web application, special attention must be paid to secure cookies and options for HTTP response header security.

**Secure Cookies**  
Cookies can be a vector for session hijacking and data exposure if not configured correctly (developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Cookies). Some of the key parameters for the SetCookie header are:

  
-   Avoid using persistent cookies for session authentication. Always use a new cookie when the user reauthenticates.
  
-   Set the Secure attribute to prevent a cookie being sent over unencrypted HTTP.
  
-   Set the HttpOnly attribute to make the cookie inaccessible to document object model/client-side scripting.
  
-   Use the SameSite attribute to control from where a cookie may be sent, mitigating request forgery attacks.
  

**Response Headers**  
A number of security options can be set in the response header returned by the server to the client (owasp.org/www-project-secure-headers). While it should seem like a straightforward case of enabling all these, developers are often constrained by compatibility and implementation considerations between different client browser and server software types and versions. Some of the most important security-relevant header options are:

  
-   HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS)—forces browser to connect using HTTPS only, mitigating downgrade attacks, such as SSL stripping.
  
-   Content Security Policy (CSP)—mitigates clickjacking, script injection, and other client-side attacks. Note that X-Frame-Options and X-XSS-Protection provide mitigation for older browser versions, but are now deprecated in favor of CSP.
  
-   Cache-Control—sets whether the browser can cache responses. Preventing caching of data protects confidential and personal information where the client device might be shared by multiple users.