- # DATA EXPOSURE AND MEMORY MANAGEMENT

#### DATA EXPOSURE AND MEMORY MANAGEMENT

**Data exposure** is a fault that allows privileged information (such as a token, password, or personal data) to be read without being subject to the appropriate access controls. Applications must only transmit such data between authenticated hosts, using cryptography to protect the session. When incorporating encryption in your code, it's important to use encryption algorithms and techniques that are known to be strong, rather than creating your own.

**Error Handling**  
A well-written application must be able to handle errors and **exceptions** gracefully. This means that the application performs in a controlled way when something unpredictable happens. An error or exception could be caused by invalid user input, a loss of network connectivity, another server or process failing, and so on. Ideally, the programmer will have written a **structured exception handler (SEH)** to dictate what the application should then do. Each procedure can have multiple exception handlers.

Some handlers will deal with anticipated errors and exceptions; there should also be a catchall handler that will deal with the unexpected. The main goal must be for the application not to fail in a way that allows the attacker to execute code or perform some sort of injection attack. One infamous example of a poorly written exception handler is the Apple GoTo bug (nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2014/02/24/anatomy-of-a-goto-fail-apples-ssl-bug-explained-plus-an-unofficial-patch).

Another issue is that an application's interpreter may default to a standard handler and display default error messages when something goes wrong. These may reveal platform information and the inner workings of code to an attacker. It is better for an application to use custom error handlers so that the developer can choose the amount of information shown when an error is caused.

> _Technically, an error is a condition that the process cannot recover from, such as the system running out of memory. An exception is a type of error that can be handled by a block of code without the process crashing. Note that exceptions are still described as generating error codes/messages, however._

**Memory Management**  
Many arbitrary code attacks depend on the target application having faulty memory management procedures. This allows the attacker to execute his or her own code in the space marked out by the target application. There are known unsecure practices for memory management that should be avoided and checks for processing untrusted input, such as strings, to ensure that it cannot overwrite areas of memory.