# SCRIPTING

#### SCRIPTING

Automation using scripting means that each configuration or build task is performed by a block of code. The script will take standard arguments as data, so there is less scope for uncertainty over configuration choices leading to errors. A script will use the following elements:

  
-   Parameters that the script takes as input data (passed to the script as arguments).
  
-   Branching and looping statements that can alter the flow of execution based on logic conditions.
  
-   Validation and error handlers to check inputs and ensure robust execution.
  
-   Unit tests to ensure that the script returns the expected outputs, given the expected inputs.

  
Popular scripting languages for automation include PowerShell (docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/overview?view=powershell-7), Python (python.org), JavaScript (w3schools.com/js), Ruby (ruby-lang.org/en), and Go (golang.org). Scripting will also make use of domain-specific languages, such as SQL, XML parsing, regex, and orchestration tools.

> _A scripting language like Python is a general purpose or procedural language. It can be adapted to perform many tasks. A domain-specific language (DSL) performs a particular task, such as regex string parsing. Orchestration manages multiple automation scripts and configuration data to provision a service._

All coding languages have a specific syntax that constrains the way sections of code are laid out in blocks and the standard statements that are available, such as branching and looping constructions.