# POWERSHELL SCRIPT ENVIRONMENT

#### POWERSHELL SCRIPT ENVIRONMENT

**PowerShell** is the preferred method of performing Windows administration tasks (docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/overview?view=powershell-7). It has also become the Windows hacker's go-to toolkit. PowerShell statements can be executed at a PowerShell prompt, or run as a script (.ps1) on any PowerShell-enabled host.

The Get-Help cmdlet shows help on different elements of the PowerShell environment. PowerShell is case-insensitive.

**Cmdlets and Functions**  
Most PowerShell usage is founded on cmdlets. A cmdlet is a compiled library that exposes some configuration or administrative task, such as starting a VM in Hyper-V. Cmdlets use a Verb-Noun naming convention. Cmdlets always return an object. Typically, the return from a cmdlet will be piped to some other cmdlet or function. For example:

```Shell
Get-Process | Where { $_.name -eq 'nmap' } | Format-List
``` 

You can also define simple functions for use within your scripts. Custom functions are declared within curly brackets:

```Sehll
function Cat-Name {

  param ($name,$surname)

  return $name + ' ' + $surname

}

#This ends the function declaration; the next statement calls it

$greeting = 'Hello ' + $(Cat-Name('World',''))

Write-Host $greeting
``` 

Note that a variable is declared by prefixing a label with $.

**Logic and Looping Statements**  
PowerShell supports a wider range of branching and looping structures than Python, including the switch and do statements. Curly brackets are used to structure the statements. PowerShell uses textual operators (`-eq`, `-ne`,`-lt`, `-gt`, `-le`, and `-ge`).

**Modules**  
PowerShell can also be used with a large number of modules, which are added to a script using the Import-Module cmdlet.

> _Varonis' blog series illustrates uses of PowerShell as a security administration platform (varonis.com/blog/practical-powershell-for-it-security-part-i-file-event-monitoring)._