# EXECUTION CONTROL

#### EXECUTION CONTROL

**Execution control** is the process of determining what additional software or scripts may be installed or run on a host beyond its baseline.

**Allow and Block Lists**  
Execution control can be implemented as either an allow list or a block list.

  
-   **Allow list** is a highly restrictive policy that means only running authorized processes and scripts. Allowing only specific applications that have been added to a list will inevitably hamper users at some point and increase support time and costs. For example, a user might need to install a conferencing application at short notice.
  
-   **Block list** is a permissive policy that only prevents execution of listed processes and scripts. It is vulnerable to software that has not previously been identified as malicious (or capable of or vulnerable to malicious use). These concepts can also be referred to as whitelists and blacklists, but most sources now deprecate this terminology.
  

**Code Signing**  
Code signing is the principal means of proving the authenticity and integrity of code (an executable or a script). The developer creates a cryptographic hash of the file then signs the hash using his or her private key. The program is shipped with a copy of the developer's code signing certificate, which contains a public key that the destination computer uses to read and verify the signature. The OS then prompts the user to choose whether to accept the signature and run the program.

**OS-Based Execution Control**  
Execution control is often enforced using a third-party security product, but there are some built-in Windows features that can perform the task:

  
-   Software Restriction Policies (SRP)—available for most versions and editions of Windows, SRP can be configured as group policy objects (GPOs) to passlist file system locations from which executables and scripts can launch. Rules can also be configured by publisher signature or by file hash. There is also support for creating blocklist-based rules.
  
-   AppLocker—improves configuration options and default usage of SRP. Notably AppLocker policies can be applied to user and group accounts rather than just computer accounts. However, AppLocker GPOs can only be configured for Enterprise and Ultimate editions of Windows 7 and later.
  
-   Windows Defender Application Control (WDAC)—formerly Device Guard, this can be used to create Code Integrity (CI) policies, which can be used on their own or in conjunction with AppLocker. CI policies apply to the computer and affect all users. CI policies can be based on version-aware and publisher digital signatures, as well as image hashes and/or file paths. WDAC is a useful option for preventing administrator accounts from disabling execution control options (docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-defender-application-control/windows-defender-application-control). WDAC is principally configured using XML policy statements and PowerShell.
  

> _In Windows, execution of PowerShell scripts can be inhibited by the execution policy. Note that the execution policy is not an access control mechanism. It can be bypassed in any number of different ways. WDAC is a robust mechanism for restricting use of potentially dangerous code, such as malicious PowerShell._

In Linux, execution control is normally enforced by using a mandatory access control (MAC) kernel module or Linux Security Module (LSM). The two main LSMs are SELinux (access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red\_hat\_enterprise\_linux/5/html/deployment\_guide/ch-selinux) and AppArmor (wiki.ubuntu.com/AppArmor).