# Summarize Deployment and Automation Concepts

> **EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED**
> 
> _2.3 Summarize secure application development, deployment, and automation concepts_

Most organizations use Agile methodologies, involving a development process of continuous integration, delivery, and deployment. You will need to be able to support the creation and use of secure development and staging environments, plus the use of provisioning and deprovisioning tools.

#### APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT, DEPLOYMENT, AND AUTOMATION

A DevSecOps culture gives project teams a broad base of development, security, and operations expertise and experience. This promotes an environment in which security tasks make increased use of automation. **Automation** is the completion of an administrative task without human intervention. Task automation steps may be configurable through a GUI control panel, via a command line, or via an API called by scripts. Tasks can be automated to provision resources, add accounts, assign permissions, perform incident detection and response, and any number of other network security tasks. Manual configuration introduces a lot of scope for making errors. A technician may be unsure of best practice, or there may be a lack of documentation. Over time, this leads to many small discrepancies in the way instances and services are configured. These small discrepancies can become big problems when it comes to maintaining, updating, and securing IT and cloud infrastructure. Automation provides better scalability and elasticity:

  
-   **Scalability** means that the costs involved in supplying the service to more users are linear. For example, if the number of users doubles in a scalable system, the costs to maintain the same level of service would also double (or less than double). If costs more than double, the system is less scalable.
  
-   **Elasticity** refers to the system's ability to handle changes on demand in real time. A system with high elasticity will not experience loss of service or performance if demand suddenly doubles (or triples, or quadruples). Conversely, it may be important for the system to be able to reduce costs when demand is low. Elasticity is a common selling point for cloud services. Instead of running a cloud resource for 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, that resource can diminish in power or shut down completely when demand for that resource is low. When demand picks up again, the resource will grow in power to the level required. This results in cost-effective operations.