# PROVISIONING, DEPROVISIONING, AND VERSION CONTROL

#### PROVISIONING, DEPROVISIONING, AND VERSION CONTROL

The use of development life cycle models and QA processes extends past development and testing to the deployment and maintenance of an application or script-based automation task.

**Provisioning**  
**Provisioning** is the process of deploying an application to the target environment, such as enterprise desktops, mobile devices, or cloud infrastructure. An enterprise provisioning manager might assemble multiple applications in a package. Alternatively, the OS and applications might be defined as a single instance for deployment on a virtualized platform. The provisioning process must account for changes to any of these applications so that packages or instances are updated with the latest version.

**Deprovisioning**  
**Deprovisioning** is the process of removing an application from packages or instances. This might be necessary if software has to be completely rewritten or no longer satisfies its purpose. As well as removing the application itself, it is also important to make appropriate environment changes to remove any configurations (such as open firewall ports) that were made just to support that application.

**Version Control**  
**Version control** is an ID system for each iteration of a software product. Most version control numbers represent both the version, as made known to the customer or end user, and internal build numbers for use in the development process. Version control supports the change management process for software development projects. Most software development environments use a build server to maintain a repository of previous versions of the source code. When a developer commits new or changed code to the repository, the new source code is tagged with an updated version number and the old version archived. This allows changes to be rolled back if a problem is discovered.