# PRIVACY AND SENSITIVE DATA CONCEPTS

#### PRIVACY AND SENSITIVE DATA CONCEPTS

The value of information assets can be thought of in terms of how a compromise of the data's security attributes of the confidentiality, integrity, and availability (CIA) triad would impact the organization. When surveying information within an organization, it is important not to solely judge how secretly it might need to be kept, but how the data is used within workflows. For example, the risk to confidentiality of public information is nonexistent. The risk to availability, however, could have significant impacts on workflows.

Data must be kept securely within a processing and storage system that enforces CIA attributes. In practice, this will mean a file or database management system that provides read or read/write access to authorized and authenticated accounts or denies access otherwise (by being encrypted, for instance). As distinct from this security requirement, you also need to consider the impact of privacy in shaping data governance.

**Privacy versus Security**  
While data security is important, privacy is an equally vital factor. Privacy is a data governance requirement that arises when collecting and processing personal data. Personal data is any information about an identifiable individual person, referred to as the data subject. Where data security controls focus on the CIA attributes of the processing system, privacy requires policies to identify private data, ensure that storage, processing, and retention is compliant with relevant regulations, limit access to the private data to authorized persons only, and ensure the rights of data subjects to review and remove any information held about them are met.

**Information Life Cycle Management**  
An information life cycle model identifies discrete steps to assist security and privacy policy design. Most models identify the following general stages:

-   Creation/collection—data may be generated by an employee or automated system, or it may be submitted by a customer or supplier. At this stage, the data needs to be classified and tagged.
  
-   Distribution/use—data is made available on a need to know basis for authorized uses by authenticated account holders and third parties.
  
-   Retention—data might have to be kept in an archive past the date when it is still used for regulatory reasons.
  
-   Disposal—when it no longer needs to be used or retained, media storing data assets must be sanitized to remove any remnants.
  

> _Information management is a massive task in any organization. Most schemes focus on structured data (that is, information that is stored in a directory hierarchy and subject to administrative access controls). Managing and classifying unstructured data (emails, chat sessions, telephone calls, and so on) is an even more daunting task, though software solutions designed to tackle this problem are available._