# PRIVACY NOTICES AND DATA RETENTION

#### PRIVACY NOTICES AND DATA RETENTION

Data owners should be aware of any legal or regulatory issues that impact collection and processing of personal data. The right to privacy, as enacted by regulations such as the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), means that personal data cannot be collected, processed, or retained without the individual's informed consent. GDPR (ico.org.uk/for-organisations/guide-to-data-protection/guide-to-the-general-data-protection-regulation-gdpr) gives data subjects rights to withdraw consent, and to inspect, amend, or erase data held about them.

**Privacy Notices**  
Informed consent means that the data must be collected and processed only for the stated purpose, and that purpose must be clearly described to the user in plain language, not legalese. This consent statement is referred to as a privacy notice. Data collected under that consent statement cannot then be used for any other purpose. For example, if you collect an email address for use as an account ID, you may not send marketing messages to that email address without obtaining separate consent for that discrete purpose. **Purpose limitation** will also restrict your ability to transfer data to third parties.

**Impact Assessments**  
Tracking consent statements and keeping data usage in compliance with the consent granted is a significant management task. In organizations that process large amounts of personal data, technical tools that perform tagging and cross-referencing of personal data records will be required. A data protection impact assessment is a process designed to identify the risks of collecting and processing personal data in the context of a business workflow or project and to identify mechanisms that mitigate those risks.

**Data Retention**  
Data retention refers to backing up and archiving information assets in order to comply with business policies and/or applicable laws and regulations. To meet compliance and e-discovery requirements, organizations may be legally bound to retain certain types of data for a specified period. This type of requirement will particularly affect financial data and security log data. Conversely, storage limitation principles in privacy legislation may prevent you from retaining personal data for longer than is necessary. This can complicate the inclusion of PII in backups and archives.