# DATA SOVEREIGNTY AND GEOGRAPHICAL CONSIDERATIONS

#### DATA SOVEREIGNTY AND GEOGRAPHICAL CONSIDERATIONS

Some states and nations may respect data privacy more or less than others; and likewise, some nations may disapprove of the nature and content of certain data. They may even be suspicious of security measures such as encryption. When your data is stored or transmitted in other jurisdictions, or when you collect data from citizens in other states or other countries, you may not "own" the data in the same way as you'd expect or like to.

**Data Sovereignty**  
**Data sovereignty** refers to a jurisdiction preventing or restricting processing and storage from taking place on systems do not physically reside within that jurisdiction. Data sovereignty may demand certain concessions on your part, such as using location-specific storage facilities in a cloud service.

For example, GDPR protections are extended to any EU citizen while they are within EU or EEA (European Economic Area) borders. Data subjects can consent to allow a transfer but there must be a meaningful option for them to refuse consent. If the transfer destination jurisdiction does not provide adequate privacy regulations (to a level comparable to GDPR), then contractual safeguards must be given to extend GDPR rights to the data subject. In the US, companies can self-certify that the protections they offer are adequate under the Privacy Shield scheme (privacyshield.gov/US-Businesses).

**Geographical Considerations**  
Geographic access requirements fall into two different scenarios:

-   Storage locations might have to be carefully selected to mitigate data sovereignty issues. Most cloud providers allow choice of data centers for processing and storage, ensuring that information is not illegally transferred from a particular privacy jurisdiction without consent.
  
-   Employees needing access from multiple geographic locations. Cloud-based file and database services can apply constraint-based access controls to validate the user's geographic location before authorizing access.