# DATA SHARING AND PRIVACY TERMS OF AGREEMENT

#### DATA SHARING AND PRIVACY TERMS OF AGREEMENT

It is important to remember that although one can outsource virtually any service or activity to a third party, one cannot outsource legal accountability for these services or actions. You are ultimately responsible for the services and actions that these third parties take. If they have any access to your data or systems, any security breach in their organization (for example, unauthorized data sharing) is effectively a breach in yours. Issues of security risk awareness, shared duties, and contractual responsibilities can be set out in a formal legal agreement. The following types of agreements are common:

-   Service level agreement (SLA)—a contractual agreement setting out the detailed terms under which a service is provided. This can include terms for security access controls and risk assessments plus processing requirements for confidential and private data.
  
-   **Interconnection security agreement (ISA)**—ISAs are defined by NIST's SP800-47 "Security Guide for Interconnecting Information Technology Systems" (csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-47/final). Any federal agency interconnecting its IT system to a third party must create an ISA to govern the relationship. An ISA sets out a security risk awareness process and commits the agency and supplier to implementing security controls.
  
-   Nondisclosure agreement (NDA)—legal basis for protecting information assets. NDAs are used between companies and employees, between companies and contractors, and between two companies. If the employee or contractor breaks this agreement and does share such information, they may face legal consequences. NDAs are useful because they deter employees and contractors from violating the trust that an employee places in them.
  
-   Data sharing and use agreement—under privacy regulations such as GDPR or HIPAA, personal data can only be collected for a specific purpose. Data sets can be subject to pseudo-anonymization or deidentification to remove personal data, but there are risks of reidentification if combined with other data sources. A data sharing and use agreement is a legal means of preventing this risk. It can specify terms for the way a data set can be analyzed and proscribe the use of reidentification techniques.