# DATA PROTECTION

#### DATA PROTECTION

Data stored within a trusted OS can be subject to authorization mechanisms where the OS mediates access using some type of ACL. The presence of a trusted OS cannot always be assumed, however. Other data protection mechanisms, notably encryption, can be used to mitigate the risk that an authorization mechanism can be countermanded. When deploying a cryptographic system to protect data assets, consideration must be given to all the ways that information could potentially be intercepted. This means thinking beyond the simple concept of a data file stored on a disk. Data can be described as being in one of three states:

-   **Data at rest**—this state means that the data is in some sort of persistent storage media. Examples of types of data that may be at rest include financial information stored in databases, archived audiovisual media, operational policies and other management documents, system configuration data, and more. In this state, it is usually possible to encrypt the data, using techniques such as whole disk encryption, **database encryption**, and file- or folder-level encryption. It is also possible to apply permissions—access control lists (ACLs)—to ensure only authorized users can read or modify the data. ACLs can be applied only if access to the data is fully mediated through a trusted OS.
  
-   **Data in transit** (or **data in motion)**—this is the state when data is transmitted over a network. Examples of types of data that may be in transit include website traffic, remote access traffic, data being synchronized between cloud repositories, and more. In this state, data can be protected by a transport encryption protocol, such as TLS or IPSec.
    
    > _With data at rest, there is a greater encryption challenge than with data in transit as the encryption keys must be kept secure for longer. Transport encryption can use ephemeral (session) keys._  
    
-   **Data in use** (or **data in processing)**—this is the state when data is present in volatile memory, such as system RAM or CPU registers and cache. Examples of types of data that may be in use include documents open in a word processing application, database data that is currently being modified, event logs being generated while an operating system is running, and more. When a user works with data, that data usually needs to be decrypted as it goes from in rest to in use. The data may stay decrypted for an entire work session, which puts it at risk. However, trusted execution environment (TEE) mechanisms, such as Intel Software Guard Extensions (software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/topics/software-guard-extensions/details.html) are able to encrypt data as it exists in memory, so that an untrusted process cannot decode the information.