# DATA EXFILTRATION

#### DATA EXFILTRATION

In a workplace where mobile devices with huge storage capacity proliferate and high bandwidth network links are readily available, attempting to prevent the loss of data by controlling the types of storage devices allowed to connect to PCs and networks can be impractical. Unauthorized copying or retrieval of data from a system is referred to as **data exfiltration**. Data exfiltration attacks are one of the primary means for attackers to retrieve valuable data, such as personally identifiable information (PII) or payment information, often destined for later sale on the black market. Data exfiltration can take place via a wide variety of mechanisms, including:

-   Copying the data to removable media or other device with storage, such as USB drive, the memory card in a digital camera, or a smartphone.
  
-   Using a network protocol, such as HTTP, FTP, SSH, email, or Instant Messaging (IM)/chat. A sophisticated adversary might use a Remote Access Trojan (RAT) to perform transfer of data over a nonstandard network port or a packet crafter to transfer data over a standard port in a nonstandard way. The adversary may also use encryption to disguise the data being exfiltrated.
  
-   By communicating it orally over a telephone, cell phone, or Voice over IP (VoIP) network. Cell phone text messaging is another possibility.
  
-   Using a picture or video of the data—if text information is converted to an image format it is very difficult for a computer-based detection system to identify the original information from the image data.
  

While some of these mechanisms are simple to mitigate through the use of security tools, others may be much less easily defeated. You can protect data using mechanisms and security controls that you have examined previously:

  
-   Ensure that all sensitive data is encrypted at rest. If the data is transferred outside the network, it will be mostly useless to the attacker without the decryption key.
  
-   Create and maintain offsite backups of data that may be targeted for destruction or ransom.
  
-   Ensure that systems storing or transmitting sensitive data are implementing access controls. Check to see if access control mechanisms are granting excessive privileges to certain accounts.
  
-   Restrict the types of network channels that attackers can use to transfer data from the network to the outside. Disconnect systems storing archived data from the network.
  
-   Train users about document confidentiality and the use of encryption to store and transmit data securely. This should also be backed up by HR and auditing policies that ensure staff are trustworthy.
  

Even if you apply these policies and controls diligently, there are still risks to data from insider threats and advanced persistent threat (APT) malware. Consequently, a class of security control software has been developed to apply access policies directly to data, rather than just the host or network on which data is located.