# PRIVACY ENHANCING TECHNOLOGIES

#### PRIVACY ENHANCING TECHNOLOGIES

**Data minimization** is the principle that data should only be processed and stored if that is necessary to perform the purpose for which it is collected. In order to prove compliance with the principle of data minimization, each process that uses personal data should be documented. The workflow can supply evidence of why processing and storage of a particular field or data point is required. Data minimization affects the data retention policy. It is necessary to track how long a data point has been stored for since it was collected and whether continued retention supports a legitimate processing function. Another impact is on test environments, where the minimization principle forbids the use of real data records.

Counterintuitively, the principle of minimization also includes the principle of sufficiency or adequacy. This means that you should collect the data required for the stated purpose in a single transaction to which the data subject can give clear consent. Collecting additional data later would not be compliant with this principle.

Large data sets are often shared or sold between organizations and companies, especially within the healthcare industry. Where these data sets contain PII or PHI, steps can be taken to remove the personal or identifying information. These **deidentification** processes can also be used internally, so that one group within a company can receive data for analysis without unnecessary risks to privacy. Deidentification methods may also be used where personal data is collected to perform a transaction but does not need to be retained thereafter. This reduces compliance risk when storing data by applying minimization principles. For example, a company uses a customer's credit card number to take payment for an order. When storing the order details, it only keeps the final 4 digits of the card as part of the transaction log, rather than the full card number.

A fully anonymized data set is one where individual subjects can no longer be identified, even if the data set is combined with other data sources. Identifying information is permanently removed. Ensuring full anonymization and preserving the utility of data for analysis is usually very difficult, however. Consequently, pseudo-anonymization methods are typically used instead. **Pseudo-anonymization** modifies or replaces identifying information so that reidentification depends on an alternate data source, which must be kept separate. With access to the alternated data, pseudo-anonymization methods are reversible.

It is important to note that given sufficient contextual information, a data subject can be reidentified, so great care must be taken when applying deidentification methods for distribution to different sources. A reidentification attack is one that combines a deidentified data set with other data sources, such as public voter records, to discover how secure the deidentification method used is.

K-anonymous information is data that can be linked to two or more individuals. This means that the data does not unambiguously reidentify a specific individual, but there is a significant risk of reidentification, given the value of K. For example, if k=5, any group that can be identified within the data set contains at least five individuals. NIST has produced an overview of deidentification issues, in draft form at the time of writing (csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Publications/sp/800-188/draft/documents/sp800\_188\_draft2.pdf).