# DATABASE DEIDENTIFICATION METHODS

#### DATABASE DEIDENTIFICATION METHODS

Deidentification methods are usually implemented as part of the database management system (DBMS) hosting the data. Sensitive fields will be tagged for deidentification whenever a query or report is run.

**Data Masking**  
**Data masking** can mean that all or part of the contents of a field are redacted, by substituting all character strings with "x" for example. A field might be partially redacted to preserve metadata for analysis purposes. For example, in a telephone number, the dialing prefix might be retained, but the subscriber number redacted. Data masking can also use techniques to preserve the original format of the field. Data masking is an irreversible deidentification technique.

**Tokenization**  
**Tokenization** means that all or part of data in a field is replaced with a randomly generated token. The token is stored with the original value on a token server or token vault, separate to the production database. An authorized query or app can retrieve the original value from the vault, if necessary, so tokenization is a reversible technique. Tokenization is used as a substitute for encryption, because from a regulatory perspective an encrypted field is the same value as the original data.

**Aggregation/Banding**  
Another deidentification technique is to generalize the data, such as substituting a specific age with a broader age band.

**Hashing and Salting**  
A cryptographic hash produces a fixed-length string from arbitrary-length plaintext data using an algorithm such as SHA. If the function is secure, it should not be possible to match the hash back to a plaintext. Hashing is mostly used to prove integrity. If two sources have access to the same plaintext, they should derive the same hash value. Hashing is used for two main purposes within a database:

  
-   As an indexing method to speed up searches and provide deidentified references to records.
  
-   As a storage method for data such as passwords where the original plaintext does not need to be retained.
  

A salt is an additional value stored with the hashed data field. The purpose of salt is to frustrate attempts to crack the hashes. It means that the attacker cannot use pre-computed tables of hashes using dictionaries of plaintexts. These tables have to be recompiled to include the salt value.