# Implement Secure Network Designs

> EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED  
> _3.3 Given a scenario, implement secure network designs_

While you may not be responsible for network design in your current role, it is important that you understand the vulnerabilities that can arise from weaknesses in network architecture, and some of the general principles for ensuring a well-designed network. This will help you to contribute to projects to improve resiliency and to make recommendations for improvements.

#### SECURE NETWORK DESIGNS

A secure network design provisions the assets and services underpinning business workflows with the properties of confidentiality, integrity, and availability. Weaknesses in the network architecture make it more susceptible to undetected intrusions or to catastrophic service failures. Typical weaknesses include:

-   Single points of failure—a "pinch point" relying on a single hardware server or appliance or network channel.
    
-   Complex dependencies—services that require many different systems to be available. Ideally, the failure of individual systems or services should not affect the overall performance of other network services.
    
-   Availability over confidentiality and integrity—often it is tempting to take "shortcuts" to get a service up and running. Compromising security might represent a quick fix but creates long term risks.
    
-   Lack of documentation and change control—network segments, appliances, and services might be added without proper change control procedures, leading to a lack of visibility into how the network is constituted. It is vital that network managers understand business workflows and the network services that underpin them.
    
-   Overdependence on perimeter security—if the network architecture is "flat" (that is, if any host can contact any other host), penetrating the network edge gives the attacker freedom of movement.
    

Cisco's SAFE architecture ([cisco.com/c/en/us/solutions/enterprise/design-zone-security/landing\_safe.html#~overview](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/implement-secure-network-designs)) is a good starting point for understanding the complex topic of network architecture design. The SAFE guidance refers to places in the network (PIN). These represent types of network locations, including campus networks, branch offices, data centers, and the cloud. There are two special locations in these networks—Internet Edge and WAN—that facilitate connections between locations and with untrusted networks.

Each PIN can be protected with security controls and capabilities, classified into a series of secure domains, such as threat defense, segmentation, security intelligence, and management.