# Demilitarized Zones

#### DEMILITARIZED ZONES

The most important distinction between different security zones is whether a host is Internet-facing. An Internet-facing host accepts inbound connections from and makes connections to hosts on the Internet. Internet-facing hosts are placed in one or more **demilitarized zones (DMZs)**. A DMZ is also referred to as a perimeter or edge network. The basic principle of a DMZ is that traffic cannot pass directly through it. A DMZ enables external clients to access data on private systems, such as web servers, without compromising the security of the internal network as a whole. If communication is required between hosts on either side of a DMZ, a host within the DMZ acts as a proxy. For example, if an intranet host requests a connection with a web server on the Internet, a proxy in the DMZ takes the request and checks it. If the request is valid, it retransmits it to the destination. External hosts have no idea about what (if anything) is behind the DMZ.

Both **extranet** and Internet services are likely to be Internet-facing. The hosts that provide the extranet or public access services should be placed in one or more demilitarized zones. These would typically include web servers, mail and other communications servers, proxy servers, and remote access servers. The hosts in a DMZ are not fully trusted by the internal network because of the possibility that they could be compromised from the Internet. They are referred to as **bastion hosts** and run minimal services to reduce the attack surface as much as possible. A bastion host would not be configured with any data that could be a security risk to the internal network, such as user account credentials.

It is quite likely that more than one DMZ will be required as the services that run in them may have different security requirements :

-   A DMZ hosting proxies or secure web gateways to allow employees access to web browsing and other Internet services.
    
-   A DMZ hosting communication servers, such as email, VoIP, and conferencing.
    
-   A DMZ for servers providing remote access to the local network via a Virtual Private Network (VPN).
    
-   A DMZ hosting traffic for authorized cloud applications.
    
-   A multi-tier DMZ to isolate front-end, middleware, and back-end servers.