# PEAP, EAP-TTLS, and EAP-FAST

#### PEAP, EAP-TTLS, AND EAP-FAST

Provisioning certificates to each wireless device is a considerable management challenge. Other types of EAP are designed to provide secure tunneling with server-side certificates only.

**Protected Extensible Authentication Protocol (PEAP)**  
In **Protected Extensible Authentication Protocol (PEAP)**, as with EAP-TLS, an encrypted tunnel is established between the supplicant and authentication server, but PEAP only requires a server-side public key certificate. The supplicant does not require a certificate. With the server authenticated to the supplicant, user authentication can then take place through the secure tunnel with protection against sniffing, password-guessing/dictionary, and on-path attacks. The user authentication method (also referred to as the "inner" method) can use either MS-CHAPv2 or EAP-GTC. The Generic Token Card (GTC) method transfers a token for authentication against a network directory or using a one-time password mechanism.

**EAP with Tunneled TLS (EAP-TTLS)**  
**EAP-Tunneled TLS (EAP-TTLS)** is similar to PEAP. It uses a server-side certificate to establish a protected tunnel through which the user's authentication credentials can be transmitted to the authentication server. The main distinction from PEAP is that EAP-TTLS can use any inner authentication protocol (PAP or CHAP, for instance), while PEAP must use EAP-MSCHAP or EAP-GTC.

**EAP with Flexible Authentication via Secure Tunneling (EAP-FAST)**  
**EAP with Flexible Authentication via Secure Tunneling (EAP-FAST)** is similar to PEAP, but instead of using a certificate to set up the tunnel, it uses a Protected Access Credential (PAC), which is generated for each user from the authentication server's master key. The problem with EAP-FAST is in distributing (provisioning) the PAC securely to each user requiring access. The PAC can either be distributed via an out-of-band method or via a server with a digital certificate (but in the latter case, EAP-FAST does not offer much advantage over using PEAP). Alternatively, the PAC can be delivered via anonymous Diffie-Hellman key exchange. The problem here is that there is nothing to authenticate the access point to the user. A rogue access point could obtain enough of the user credential to perform an ASLEAP password cracking attack ([techrepublic.com/article/ultimate-wireless-security-guide-a-primer-on-cisco-eap-fast-authentication](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/peap-eap-ttls-and-eap-fast)).