# Assume Superuser Privileges

> **EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED**  
> _3.1 Given a scenario, apply or acquire the appropriate user and/or group permissions and ownership._

In order to create accounts for other users, as well as perform many other administrative tasks discussed in this course, you'll need to ensure you have the privileges to do so. By assuming the privileges of the superuser, you'll be able to get your work done while still adhering to best practices for security.

#### **User Accounts**

Accounts are objects that represent users and services to Linux. If these entities are represented by an account, then that account can be managed. **_User accounts_** represent identities that authenticate to the system and can use authentication credentials to do specific tasks. User information includes group memberships.

Individuals who will be using the Linux computer should have their own unique user accounts. Administrators will use these accounts to control the user's access to files, directories, and commands on the system. Each account is referenced by the system using a user ID (UID), rather than a name. Names are used for the convenience of the users.

User accounts have several attributes, including password information, group memberships, expiration dates, comments, etc.

#### **Types of User Accounts**

There are three different types of accounts: root, standard user, and service.

The root user account plays two roles on a Linux system. The first role is that of the local administrator. A user logged on as root can do administrative tasks such as password resets, system configuration changes, user account management, etc. The second role played by the root user account is to provide a security context for some applications and commands. These applications and commands may be called by the system or manually entered by a user logged on as root. The root user account in Linux is significantly more powerful than the local administrator account on a Windows system. It is a bad practice to log on to any system with administrative credentials. On a Linux system, this can be particularly dangerous. The root user can take destructive action on the system, often without any verification prompt.

> _Note: Some Linux distributions, such as Ubuntu, disable the root user account entirely in order to minimize this threat. During the installation process, a regular user account is given administrative privileges._

Standard user accounts represent regular system users who may log on to run applications, configure databases, build websites, etc. Each user should have their own account and these accounts should not be shared. Most tasks that a user should be doing on the system should only require standard user account privileges. It is possible to set a standard user account to have administrative privileges. The advantage of this over permitting the user to log on as root directly is that the privileges of the standard user can be limited, whereas the root user privileges cannot.

Applications also consume resources on the system, so they are often represented by their own service accounts. These accounts are usually specific to the service (such as the httpd web service or a database service). They are disabled for regular log on, and the accounts are usually created as part of the service installation process. They will often own configuration files or executables associated with the service.