# THE sudo COMMAND

#### **THE sudo COMMAND**

With the su command, any user who knows the root password can "get root" and do anything the root user can do. An account using su – root essentially is the server administrator. This is often much more power than should be delegated to users. A better practice is to delegate specific functions to users, rather than granting system-wide root privileges.

The sudo command enables the server administrator to delegate specific commands to specific users, without granting them full privileges on the server. Delegation is done in the /etc/sudoers file by using the visudo editor. Users and groups may be given specific commands to run in order to fulfill their responsibilities without having full administrator privileges.

**SYNTAX**

The syntax of the sudo command is sudo \[options\] {command}

#### **THE sudoedit COMMAND**

Some Linux files require root user privileges to edit. This could be accomplished with a sudo configuration, but a simpler and more secure option is to use the sudoedit command. This command permits a user to edit a file with their own credentials, even if the file is only available to the root user. In addition, the user can use their preferred text editor.

To use sudoedit, you must make an entry in the sudoers file. For example, the following line could be added to the sudoers file:

`%editors ALL = sudoedit /path/to/file` 

Any member of the editors group could then enter the following command to edit a file: sudoedit /path/to/file

The sudo configuration is appropriate for commands that need to be executed with elevated privileges, while the sudoedit option is appropriate for files that need to be edited with elevated privileges.

**SYNTAX**

The syntax of the sudoedit command is sudoedit \[options\] {file name}