# Create, Modify, and Delete Users

> **EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED**
> 
> _2.2 Given a scenario, manage users and groups.  
> 3.1 Given a scenario, apply or acquire the appropriate user and/or group permissions and ownership._

Now that you have superuser privileges, you're ready to begin creating accounts for users in your organization. You'll also, at some point, need to modify and delete those accounts as necessary.

#### THE useradd COMMAND

The useradd command is used to create user accounts and configure basic settings. As part of the account creation process, useradd references several files:

-   The account is stored in the /etc/passwd file.
-   The account is configured according to various options set in the /etc/login.defs file.
-   The account's home directory is created at the /home/ directory.
-   The account's home directory is populated using files from the /etc/skel directory.

By default, the useradd command does not set a password for the account. Since most Linux distributions will not permit a blank password, the account will exist but is not yet usable.

**SYNTAX**

The syntax of the useradd command is useradd \[options\] \[user name\]

#### useradd COMMAND OPTIONS

The useradd command includes many options to customize user accounts, as detailed in the following table.

Option | Description | Example
------- | --------- | -------
\-c | Sets the comment field, which is typically used as the field for the user's full name. | `useradd -c "User One" user1` 
\-e | Sets the account expiration date. | `useradd -e 2019/12/31`
\-s | Sets the user's default shell. | `useradd -s /bin/ksh`
\-D | View the default configurations for new users. | `useradd -D`
