# THE usermod COMMAND

#### **THE usermod COMMAND**

The usermod command is used to modify settings for regular users. It edits the /etc/passwd file, avoiding the need for administrators to edit the file directly. There are many modifications an administrator can make to an existing user account.

The following table lists some options for the usermod command.

Option | Description | Example
------- | ------- | -------
\-c | Sets the comment field. | `usermod -c "User One" user1`
\-e | Sets the account expiration date. | `usermod -e 2020/12/31 user1`
\-aG | Adds user to a group and keeps them in their existing groups. | `usermod -aG sales-group user1`
\-l | Changes the user's login name. | `usermod -l user99 user1`

  
**SYNTAX**  
The syntax of the usermod command is `usermod [options] {user name}`

#### **Lock User Login**

An administrator may lock a user account if that user leaves the company, if there's a security breach, or if the user takes a long leave of absence. Locking the account renders it unusable without deleting the account or its settings. The account can be unlocked when needed.

User accounts can be locked with either the passwd or usermod commands.

To lock:

-   `passwd -l {user name}`
-   `usermod -L {user name}`

To unlock:

-   `passwd -u {user name}`
-   `usermod -U {user name}`

#### **THE userdel COMMAND**

The userdel command is used to delete user accounts. By default, it does not delete the user's home directory, unless you use the -r option. Deleting the user account removes all references to it. You would have to recreate the account and re-add it to groups in order to resemble the original identity. Use caution before deleting a user account.

**SYNTAX**  
The syntax of the userdel command is `userdel [options] {user names}`