# THE groupadd COMMAND

#### **THE groupadd COMMAND**

The groupadd command creates a group. By default, the group has no members and no password. In addition to creating a group with a friendly name, you can also specify a group ID using the -g option.

Some groupadd options include the following.

Option | Used To | Example
-------- | -------- | -------
\-g | Assign a group ID. | `groupadd -g 123 sales`
\-f | Exit with a success status if the group already exists. | `groupadd -f sales`
\-o | Allow a group to be created with a non-unique group ID. | `groupadd -o -g 123 sales`

  
**SYNTAX** The syntax of the groupadd command is `groupadd [options] {group names}`

#### **THE groupmod COMMAND**

The groupmod command is used to change the group's own attributes. It will edit the /etc/group file for you. Modifications of the group might include changing its name or GID.

> _Note: Adding a user to a group is considered to be a modification of the user, not the group. As such, it is accomplished using the_ `usermod` _command._

Option | Used To | Example
-------- | -------- | -------
\-g | Change the group ID. | `groupmod -g 123 sales`
\-n | Rename a group. | `groupmod -n newsales sales`

  
**SYNTAX**  
The syntax of the groupmod command is `groupmod [options] {group names}`

THE groupdel COMMAND The groupdel command will delete groups from the /etc/group file. It does not delete user accounts that are members of the group. Exercise caution when deleting groups as a mistake can cause users to not be able to access resources.

**SYNTAX**  
The syntax of the groupdel command is `groupdel [options] {group names}`