# Personnel Policies for Privilege Management

#### PERSONNEL POLICIES FOR PRIVILEGE MANAGEMENT

HR and IT must collaborate to ensure effective privilege management. These policies aim to ensure that the risk of insider threat is minimized.

**Separation of Duties**  
**Separation of duties** is a means of establishing checks and balances against the possibility that critical systems or procedures can be compromised by insider threats. Duties and responsibilities should be divided among individuals to prevent ethical conflicts or abuse of powers.

> _An employee is supposed to work for the interests of their organization exclusively. A situation where someone can act in his or her own interest, personally, or in the interests of a third party is said to be a conflict of interest._

Separation of duties means that employees must be constrained by security policies:

-   Standard operating procedures (SOPs) mean that an employee has no excuse for not following protocol in terms of performing these types of critical operations.
    
-   Shared authority means that no one user is able to action or enable changes on his or her own authority. At least two people must authorize the change. One example is separating responsibility for purchasing (ordering) from that of authorizing payment. Another is that a request to create an account should be subject to approval and oversight.
    

> _Separation of duties does not completely eliminate risk because there is still the chance of collusion between two or more people. This, however, is a much less likely occurrence than a single rogue employee._

**Least Privilege**  
**Least privilege** means that a user is granted sufficient rights to perform his or her job and no more. This mitigates risk if the account should be compromised and fall under the control of a threat actor. Authorization creep refers to a situation where a user acquires more and more rights, either directly or by being added to security groups and roles. Least privilege should be ensured by closely analyzing business workflows to assess what privileges are required and by performing regular account audits.

**Job Rotation**  
Job rotation (or rotation of duties) means that no one person is permitted to remain in the same job for an extended period. For example, managers may be moved to different departments periodically, or employees may perform more than one job role, switching between them throughout the year. Rotating individuals into and out of roles, such as the firewall administrator or access control specialist, helps an organization ensure that it is not tied too firmly to any one individual because vital institutional knowledge is spread among trusted employees. Job rotation also helps prevent abuse of power, reduces boredom, and enhances individuals' professional skills.

**Mandatory Vacation**  
**Mandatory vacation** means that employees are forced to take their vacation time, during which someone else fulfills their duties. The typical mandatory vacation policy requires that employees take at least one vacation a year in a full-week increment so that they are away from work for at least five days in a row. During that time, the corporate audit and security employees have time to investigate and discover any discrepancies in employee activity.