# Mandatory and Attribute-Based Access Control

#### MANDATORY AND ATTRIBUTE-BASED ACCESS CONTROL

The DAC and RBAC models expose privileged accounts to the threat of compromise. More restrictive access control models can be used to mitigate this threat.

**Mandatory Access Control (MAC)**  
**Mandatory access control (MAC)** is based on the idea of security clearance levels. Rather than defining ACLs on resources, each object and each subject is granted a clearance level, referred to as a label. If the model used is a hierarchical one (that is, high clearance users are trusted to access low clearance objects), subjects are only permitted to access objects at their own clearance level or below.

The labelling of objects and subjects takes place using pre-established rules. The critical point is that these rules cannot be changed by any subject account, and are therefore non-discretionary. Also, a subject is not permitted to change an object's label or to change his or her own label.

**Attribute-Based Access Control (ABAC)**  
**Attribute-based access control (ABAC)** is the most fine-grained type of access control model. As the name suggests, an ABAC system is capable of making access decisions based on a combination of subject and object attributes plus any context-sensitive or system-wide attributes. As well as group/role memberships, these attributes could include information about the OS currently being used, the IP address, or the presence of up-to-date patches and anti-malware. An attribute-based system could monitor the number of events or alerts associated with a user account or with a resource, or track access requests to ensure they are consistent in terms of timing of requests or geographic location. It could be programmed to implement policies, such as M-of-N control and separation of duties.