# OAuth and OpenID Connect

#### OAUTH AND OPENID CONNECT

Many public clouds use application programming interfaces (APIs) based on Representational State Transfer (REST) rather than SOAP. These are often called RESTful APIs. Where SOAP is a tightly specified protocol, REST is a looser architectural framework. This allows the service provider more choice over implementation elements. Compared to SOAP and SAML, there is better support for mobile apps.

OAuth Authentication and authorization for a RESTful API is often implemented using the **Open Authorization (OAuth)** protocol. OAuth is designed to facilitate sharing of information (resources) within a user profile between sites. The user creates a password-protected account at an identity provider (IdP). The user can use that account to log on to an OAuth consumer site without giving the password to the consumer site. A user (resource owner) can grant a client an authorization to access some part of their account. A client in this context is an app or consumer site.

The user account is hosted by one or more resource servers. A resource server is also called an API server because it hosts the functions that allow clients (consumer sites and mobile apps) to access user attributes. Authorization requests are processed by an authorization server. A single authorization server can manage multiple resource servers; equally the resource and authorization server could be the same server instance.

The client app or service must be registered with the authorization server. As part of this process, the client registers a redirect URL, which is the endpoint that will process authorization tokens. Registration also provides the client with an ID and a secret. The ID can be publicly exposed, but the secret must be kept confidential between the client and the authorization server. When the client application requests authorization, the user approves the authorization server to grant the request using an appropriate method. OAuth supports several grant types—or flows—for use in different contexts, such as server to server or mobile app to server. Depending on the flow type, the client will end up with an access token validated by the authorization server. The client presents the access token to the resource server, which then accepts the request for the resource if the token is valid.

OAuth uses the JavaScript object notation (JSON) web token (JWT) format for claims data. JWTs can easily be passed as Base64-encoded strings in URLs and HTTP headers and can be digitally signed for authentication and integrity.

**OpenID Connect (OIDC)**  
OAuth is explicitly designed to authorize claims and not to authenticate users. The implementation details for fields and attributes within tokens are not defined. There is no mechanism to validate that a user who initiated an authorization request is still logged on and present. The access token once granted has no authenticating information. **Open ID Connect (OIDC)** is an authentication protocol that can be implemented as special types of OAuth flows with precisely defined token fields.

> _Note that OpenID can also refer to an earlier protocol developed between 2005 and 2007. This implemented a similar framework and underpinned early "sign on with" functionality, but is now regarded as obsolete. OpenID uses XML-format messaging and supports only web applications and not mobile apps._