# Conduct Policies

#### CONDUCT POLICIES

Operational policies include privilege/credential management, data handling, and incident response. Other important security policies include those governing employee conduct and respect for privacy.

**Acceptable Use Policy**  
Enforcing an **acceptable use policy (AUP)** is important to protect the organization from the security and legal implications of employees misusing its equipment. Typically, the policy will forbid the use of equipment to defraud, defame, or to obtain illegal material. It will prohibit the installation of unauthorized hardware or software and explicitly forbid actual or attempted snooping of confidential data that the employee is not authorized to access. Acceptable use guidelines must be reasonable and not interfere with employees' fundamental job duties or privacy rights. An organization's AUP may forbid use of Internet tools outside of work-related duties or restrict such use to break times.

**Code of Conduct and Social Media Analysis**  
A **code of conduct**, or rules of behavior, sets out expected professional standards. For example, employees' use of social media and file sharing poses substantial risks to the organization, including threat of virus infection or systems intrusion, lost work time, copyright infringement, and defamation. Users should be aware that any data communications, such as email, made through an organization's computer system are likely stored within the system, on servers, backup devices, and so on. Such communications are also likely to be logged and monitored. Employers may also subject employees' personal social media accounts to analysis and monitoring, to check for policy infringements.

Rules of behavior are also important when considering employees with privileged access to computer systems. Technicians and managers should be bound by clauses that forbid them from misusing privileges to snoop on other employees or to disable a security mechanism.

**Use of Personally Owned Devices in the Workplace**  
Portable devices, such as smartphones, USB sticks, media players, and so on, pose a considerable threat to data security, as they make file copy so easy. Camera and voice recording functions are other obvious security issues. Network access control, endpoint management, and data loss prevention solutions can be of some use in preventing the attachment of such devices to corporate networks. Some companies may try to prevent staff from bringing such devices on site. This is quite difficult to enforce, though.

Also important to consider is the unauthorized use of personal software by employees or employees using software or services that has not been sanctioned for a project (shadow IT). Personal software may include either locally installed software or hosted applications, such as personal email or instant messenger, and may leave the organization open to a variety of security vulnerabilities. Such programs may provide a route for data exfiltration, a transport mechanism for malware, or possibly software license violations for which the company might be held liable, just to name a few of the potential problems.

**Clean Desk Policy** A **clean desk policy** means that each employee's work area should be free from any documents left there. The aim of the policy is to prevent sensitive information from being obtained by unauthorized staff or guests at the workplace.