# Diversity of Training Techniques

#### DIVERSITY OF TRAINING TECHNIQUES

It is necessary to frame security training in language that end users will respond to. Education should focus on responsibilities and threats that are relevant to users. It is necessary to educate users about new or emerging threats (such as fileless malware, phishing scams, or zero-day exploits in software), but this needs to be stated in language that users understand.

Using a diversity of training techniques helps to improve engagement and retention. Training methods include facilitated workshops and events, one-on-one instruction and mentoring, plus resources such as computer-based or online training, videos, books, and blogs/newsletters.

**Phishing Campaigns**  
A phishing campaign training event means sending simulated phishing messages to users. Users that respond to the messages can be targeted for follow-up training.

**Capture the Flag**  
**Capture the Flag (CTF)** is usually used in ethical hacker training programs and gamified competitions. Participants must complete a series of challenges within a virtualized computing environment to discover a flag. The flag will represent either threat actor activity (for blue team exercises) or a vulnerability (for red team exercises) and the participant must use analysis and appropriate tools to discover it. Capturing the flag allows the user to progress to the next level and start a new challenge. Once the participant has passed the introductory levels, they will join a team and participate in a competitive event, where there are multiple flags embedded in the environment and capturing them wins points for the participant and for their team.

**Computer-Based Training and Gamification**  
Participants respond well to the competitive challenge of CTF events. This type of gamification can be used to boost security awareness for other roles too. **Computer-based training (CBT)** allows a student to acquire skills and experience by completing various types of practical activities:

-   Simulations—recreating system interfaces or using emulators so students can practice configuration tasks.
    
-   Branching scenarios—students choose between options to find the best choices to solve a cybersecurity incident or configuration problem.
    

CBT might use video game elements to improve engagement. For example, students might win badges and level-up bonuses such as skills or digitized loot to improve their in-game avatar. Simulations might be presented so that the student chooses encounters from a map and engages with a simulation environment in a first person shooter type of 3D world.