# Configure Linux Boot Components

> **EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED**
> 
> _1.1 Explain Linux boot process concepts.  
> 1.4 Given a scenario, manage storage in a Linux environment._

To begin with, you must become familiar with how exactly Linux boots, as well as identify various components that make up the boot process. In addition, you'll configure some of these components to alter the boot process to fit your needs.

#### Booting

**_Booting_** is the process of starting or restarting a computer and loading an operating system for the user to access. In the boot process, a booting environment reads a small program that is stored in read-only memory (ROM). This program then executes various operations in RAM that bootstrap the operating system and make it available for use.

Linux, like other operating systems, must be booted for it to function. There are various options associated with the boot process that you can configure, if necessary.

#### Boot Loader

A **_boot loader_** is the small program stored in ROM that loads the kernel from a storage device, and then starts the operating system. A boot environment like BIOS reads the boot loader from ROM so that the boot loader can execute the necessary operations to start the process.

Boot loaders are able to protect the boot process with a password to prevent unauthorized booting of the system. In addition, boot loaders can load more than one operating system into the computer's memory, but the user needs to select the desired operating system to use during boot.

#### Boot Loader Components

The boot loader uses three main components that work together to systematically load the operating system in stages.

Component | Description
------- | ----------
Boot sector program | The first component of the boot loader. It is loaded by a boot environment on startup and has a fixed size of 512 bytes. Its main function is to load the second stage boot loader; however, it can also load another sector or a kernel.
Second stage boot loader | Loads the operating system and contains a kernel loader.
Boot loader installer | Controls the installation of drive sectors and can be run only when booting from a drive. It coordinates the activities of the boot sector and the boot loader.

