# Additional Boot Options

#### Additional Boot Options

BIOS and UEFI are not the only environments you can boot Linux from. The following table describes some additional boot options.

Boot Option | Description
---------- | ----------
Boot from ISO | An ISO image is a system image, originally that of an optical disc. Today it is commonly used as a file format for packaging and distributing images of operating systems that users can boot from, as well as use to install the OS. Typically, you'd write the ISO image to an optical disc or USB thumb drive, then insert the media into the computer and instruct a boot environment like UEFI to boot from that media. ISOs are also commonly used to construct virtual machines.
PXE | Preboot Execution Environment (PXE) is a part of the UEFI standard that enables a client to retrieve the necessary boot loader and system files from a server over the network. The client configures UEFI to boot from PXE, and during the startup process, it will search for Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) servers that also act as PXE servers. Once the proper server is found, the server transfers the necessary boot files to the client over the Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP).
Boot from HTTP/FTP | Clients can also acquire boot data over a network from content delivery protocols like Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) and File Transfer Protocol (FTP). These are typically faster, more reliable, and more secure than the standard TFTP protocol used in PXE. Open source implementations of PXE, like iPXE, extend PXE support to include these protocols.
Boot from NFS | This is another network boot option. Rather than store system files on a local storage drive, a client will mount an NFS share as its root file system. The share must be prepared ahead of time and stored on an NFS server that the client can retrieve the files from. Therefore, the client does not store data locally, but on the NFS server. DHCP, TFTP, and other network protocols can be used to communicate the necessary boot data in such an environment.