# Identity Management Controls

#### IDENTITY MANAGEMENT CONTROLS

On a private network, a digital identity can be represented by an account. The network administrator ensures the integrity of the server hosting the accounts, while each user is responsible for protecting the credentials so that only they can authenticate to the account and use it. On public networks and as an extra layer of protection on private networks, the account may also be identified by some cryptographic material.

**Certificates and Smart Cards**  
Public key infrastructure (PKI) allows the management of digital identities, where a certificate authority (CA) issues certificates to validated subjects (users and servers). The subject identity can be trusted by any third party that also trusts the CA.

The certificate contains the subject's public key and is signed by the CA's private key. These public keys allow third parties to verify the certificate and the signature. The subject's public key is part of a pair with a linked private key. The private key must be kept secret. It can be stored on the computer, either in the file system or in a trusted platform module (TPM) chip. Alternatively, a user's certificate and private key can be stored on a smart card or USB key and used to authenticate to different PCs and mobile devices.

**Tokens**  
It is inconvenient for users to authenticate to each application they need to use. In a single sign-on system, the user authenticates to an identity provider (IdP) and receives a cryptographic token. The user can present that token to compatible applications as proof they are authenticated, and receive authorizations from the application. With a token, there is always a risk that a malicious actor will be able to capture and replay it. The application protocol that makes use of tokens must be designed to resist this type of attack.

**Identity Providers**  
The identity provider is the service that provisions the user account and processes authentication requests. On a private network, these identity directories and application authorization services can be operated locally. The same site operates both identity provision and application provision. Most networks now make use of third-party cloud services, however. In this scenario, various protocols and frameworks are available to implement federated identity management across web-based services. This means that a user can create a digital identity with a one provider, but other sites can use that identity to authorize use of an application.