# Background Check and Onboarding Policies

#### BACKGROUND CHECK AND ONBOARDING POLICIES

Identity and access management (IAM) involves both IT/security procedures and technologies and Human Resources (HR) policies. Personnel management policies are applied in three phases:

-   Recruitment (hiring)—locating and selecting people to work in particular job roles. Security issues here include screening candidates and performing background checks.
    
-   Operation (working)—it is often the HR department that manages the communication of policy and training to employees (though there may be a separate training and personal development department within larger organizations). As such, it is critical that HR managers devise training programs that communicate the importance of security to employees.
    
-   Termination or separation (firing or retiring)—whether an employee leaves voluntarily or involuntarily, termination is a difficult process, with numerous security implications.
    

**Background Check**  
A background check determines that a person is who they say they are and are not concealing criminal activity, bankruptcy, or connections that would make them unsuitable or risky. Employees working in high confidentiality environments or with access to high value transactions will obviously need to be subjected to a greater degree of scrutiny. For some jobs, especially federal jobs requiring a security clearance, background checks are mandatory. Some background checks are performed internally, whereas others are done by an external third party.

**Onboarding**  
**Onboarding** at the HR level is the process of welcoming a new employee to the organization. The same sort of principle applies to taking on new suppliers or contractors. Some of the same checks and processes are used in creating customer and guest accounts. As part of onboarding, the IT and HR function will combine to create an account for the user to access the computer system, assign the appropriate privileges, and ensure the account credentials are known only to the valid user. These functions must be integrated, to avoid creating accidental configuration vulnerabilities, such as IT creating an account for an employee who is never actually hired. Some of the other tasks and processes involved in onboarding include:

-   **Secure transmission of credentials**—creating and sending an initial password or issuing a smart card securely. The process needs protection against rogue administrative staff. Newly created accounts with simple or default passwords are an easily exploitable backdoor.
    
-   **Asset allocation**—provision computers or mobile devices for the user or agree to the use of bring-your-own-device handsets.
    
-   **Training/policies**—schedule appropriate security awareness and role-relevant training and certification.
    

**Nondisclosure Agreement (NDA)**  
The terms of an **nondisclosure agreement (NDA)** might be incorporated within the employee contract or could be a separate document. When an employee or contractor signs an NDA, they are asserting that they will not share confidential information with a third party.