# Security Account Types and Credential Management

#### SECURITY ACCOUNT TYPES AND CREDENTIAL MANAGEMENT

Operating systems, network appliances, and network directory products use some standard account types as the basis of a privilege management system. These include standard user, administrative user, security group accounts, and service accounts.

Standard users have limited privileges, typically with access to run programs and to create and modify files belonging only to their profile.

**Credential Management Policies for Personnel**  
Improper credential management continues to be one of the most fruitful vectors for network attacks. If an organization must continue to rely on password-based credentials, its usage needs to be governed by strong policies and training.

A password policy instructs users on best practice in choosing and maintaining passwords. More generally, a credential management policy should instruct users on how to keep their authentication method secure, whether this be a password, smart card, or biometric ID. Password protection policies mitigate against the risk of attackers being able to compromise an account and use it to launch other attacks on the network. The credential management policy also needs to alert users to diverse types of social engineering attacks. Users need to be able to spot phishing and pharming attempts, so that they do not enter credentials into an unsecure form or spoofed site.

**Guest Accounts**  
A guest account is a special type of shared account with no password. It allows anonymous and unauthenticated access to a resource. The Windows OS creates guest user and group accounts when installed, but the guest user account is disabled by default. Guest accounts are also created when installing web services, as most web servers allow unauthenticated access.