# Administrator/Root Accounts

#### ADMINISTRATOR/ROOT ACCOUNTS

Administrative or privileged accounts are able to install and remove apps and device drivers, change system-level settings, and access any object in the file system. Ideally, only accounts that have been created and assigned specific permissions should have this kind of elevated privilege. In practice, it is very hard to eliminate the presence of default administrator accounts. A **default account** is one that is created by the operating system or application when it is installed. The default account has every permission available. In Windows, this account is called Administrator; in Linux, it is called root. This type of account is also referred to as a superuser.

**Generic Administrator Account Management**  
Superuser accounts directly contradict the principles of least privilege and separation of duties. Consequently, superuser accounts should be prohibited from logging on in normal circumstances. The default superuser account should be restricted to disaster recovery operations only. In Windows, the account is usually disabled by default and can be further restricted using group policy ([docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/identity/ad-ds/plan/security-best-practices/appendix-h--securing-local-administrator-accounts-and-groups](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/administratorroot-accounts)). The first user account created during setup has superuser permissions, however.

> _On Windows networks, you also need to distinguish between local administrators and domain administrators. The scope of a local administrator's privileges is restricted to the machine hosting the account. Domain administrators can have privileges over any machine joined to the domain._

Ubuntu Linux follows a similar approach; the root account is configured with no password and locked, preventing login. An alternate superuser account is created during setup. In other Linux distributions, a password is usually set at install time. This password must be kept as securely as is possible.

**Administrator Credential Policies**  
The default superuser should be replaced with one or more named accounts with sufficient elevated privileges for a given job role. This can be referred to as generic account prohibition. It means that administrative activity can be audited and the system as a whole conforms to the property of non-repudiation.

> _It is a good idea to restrict the number of administrative accounts as much as possible. The more accounts there are, the more likely it is that one of them will be compromised. On the other hand, you do not want administrators to share accounts, as that compromises accountability._

Users with administrative privileges must take the greatest care with credential management. Privilege-access accounts must use strong passwords and ideally multifactor authentication (MFA).

**Default Security Groups**  
Most operating systems also create default security groups, with a default set of permissions. In Windows, privileges are assigned to local group accounts (the Users and Administrators groups) rather than directly to user accounts. Custom security groups with different permissions can be created to enforce the principle of least privilege. In Linux, privileged accounts are typically configured by adding either a user or a group account to the `/etc/sudoers` file ([linux.com/training-tutorials/start-fine-tuning-sudo-linux](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/administratorroot-accounts)).