# Shared/Generic/Device Accounts and Credentials

#### SHARED/GENERIC/DEVICE ACCOUNTS AND CREDENTIALS

A **shared account** is one where passwords (or other authentication credentials) are known to more than one person. Typically, simple SOHO networking devices do not allow for the creation of multiple accounts and a single "Admin" account is used to manage the device. These accounts might be configured with a default password. Other examples include the default (or generic) OS accounts, such as Administrator and Guest in Windows or root in Linux, or accounts added to default security groups. Shared accounts may also be set up for temporary staff.

A shared account breaks the principle of non-repudiation and makes an accurate audit trail difficult to establish. It makes it more likely that the password for the account will be compromised. The other major risk involves password changes to an account. Since frequent password changing is a common policy, organizations will need to ensure that everyone who has access to an account knows when the password will change, and what that new password will be. This necessitates distributing passwords to a large group of people, which itself poses a significant challenge to security. Shared accounts should only be used where these risks are understood and accepted.

**Credential Policies for Devices**  
Network appliances designed for enterprise use are unlikely to be restricted to a single default account, and will use TACACS+ to support individual accounts and role-based permissions. If a device can only be operated with a shared password, ensure separation of duties to ensure the device remains in an authorized configuration.

**Privilege Access Management**  
Even with the most carefully designed role-based permissions, it is almost impossible to eliminate use of shared/device/root passwords completely. Enterprise **privilege access management** products provide a solution for storing these high-risk credentials somewhere other than a spreadsheet and for auditing elevated privileges generally ([gartner.com/reviews/market/privileged-access-management](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/sharedgenericdevice-accounts-and-credentials)).