# Account Password Policy Settings

#### ACCOUNT PASSWORD POLICY SETTINGS

System-enforced **account policies** can help to enforce credential management principles by stipulating requirements for user-selected passwords:

-   Password length—enforces a minimum length for passwords. There may also be a maximum length.
    
-   Password complexity—enforces password complexity rules (that is, no use of username within password and combination of at least eight upper/lower case alpha-numeric and non-alpha-numeric characters).
    
-   Password aging—forces the user to select a new password after a set number of days.
    
-   Password reuse and history—prevents the selection of a password that has been used already. The history attribute sets how many previous passwords are blocked.
    

In this context, you should note that the most recent guidance issued by NIST ([nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-63b.pdf](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/account-password-policy-settings)) deprecates some of the "traditional" elements of password policy:

-   Complexity rules should not be enforced. The user should be allowed to choose a password (or other memorized secret) of between 8 and 64 ASCII or UNICODE characters, including spaces. The only restriction should be to block common passwords, such as dictionary words, repetitive strings (like 12345678), strings found in breach databases, and strings that repeat contextual information, such as username or company name.
    
-   Aging policies should not be enforced. Users should be able to select if and when a password should be changed, though the system should be able to force a password change if compromise is detected.
    
-   Password hints should not be used. A password hint allows account recovery by submitting responses to personal information, such as first school or pet name.
    

> _The cartoon at [xkcd.com/936](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/account-password-policy-settings) sums up the effect of policies on password entropy._

One approach to a password hint is to treat it as a secondary password and submit a random but memorable phrase, rather than an "honest" answer. The risk in allowing password hints is demonstrated by the data recovered in the Adobe data breach ([nakedsecurity.sophos.com/2013/11/04/anatomy-of-a-password-disaster-adobes-giant-sized-cryptographic-blunder](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/account-password-policy-settings)).

> _Password reuse can also mean using a work password elsewhere (on a website, for instance). This sort of behavior can only be policed by soft policies._