# Discretionary and Role-Based Access Control

DISCRETIONARY AND ROLE-BASED ACCESS CONTROL

An important consideration in designing a security system is to determine how users receive rights or permissions. The different models are referred to as access control schemes.

**Discretionary Access Control (DAC)**  
**Discretionary access control (DAC)** is based on the primacy of the resource owner. The owner is originally the creator of a file or service, though ownership can be assigned to another user. The owner is granted full control over the resource, meaning that he or she can modify its access control list (ACL) to grant rights to others.

DAC is the most flexible model and is currently implemented widely in terms of computer and network security. In terms of file system security, it is the model used by default for most UNIX/Linux distributions and by Microsoft Windows. As the most flexible model, it is also the weakest because it makes centralized administration of security policies the most difficult to enforce. It is also the easiest to compromise, as it is vulnerable to insider threats and abuse of compromised accounts.

**Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)**  
**Role-based access control (RBAC)** adds an extra degree of centralized control to the DAC model. Under RBAC, a set of organizational roles are defined, and subjects allocated to those roles. Under this system, the right to modify roles is reserved to a system owner. Therefore, the system is non-discretionary, as each subject account has no right to modify the ACL of a resource, even though they may be able to change the resource in other ways. Users are said to gain rights implicitly (through being assigned to a role) rather than explicitly (being assigned the right directly).

RBAC can be partially implemented through the use of security group accounts, but they are not identical schemes. Membership of security groups is largely discretionary (assigned by administrators, rather than determined by the system). Also, ideally, a subject should only inherit the permissions of a role to complete a particular task rather than retain them permanently.