# Rule-Based Access Control

#### RULE-BASED ACCESS CONTROL

Rule-based access control is a term that can refer to any sort of access control model where access control policies are determined by system-enforced rules rather than system users. As such, RBAC, ABAC, and MAC are all examples of rule-based (or non-discretionary) access control. As well as the formal models, rule-based access control principles are increasingly being implemented to protect computer and network systems founded on discretionary access from the sort of misconfiguration that can occur through DAC.

**Conditional Access**  
Conditional access is an example of rule-based access control. A conditional access system monitors account or device behavior throughout a session. If certain conditions are met, the account may be suspended or the user may be required to reauthenticate, perhaps using a 2-step verification method. The User Account Control (UAC) and sudo restrictions on privileged accounts are examples of conditional access. The user is prompted for confirmation or authentication when requests that require elevated privileges are made. Role-based rights management and ABAC systems can apply a number of criteria to conditional access, including location-based policies ([docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/conditional-access/overview](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/rule-based-access-control)).

**Privileged Access Management**  
A privileged account is one that can make significant configuration changes to a host, such as installing software or disabling a firewall or other security system. Privileged accounts also have rights to log on network appliances and application servers.

**Privileged access management (PAM)** refers to policies, procedures, and technical controls to prevent the malicious abuse of privileged accounts and to mitigate risks from weak configuration control over privileges. These controls identify and document privileged accounts, giving visibility into their use, and manage the credentials used to access them ([beyondtrust.com/resources/glossary/privileged-access-management-pam](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/rule-based-access-control)).