# Hackers, Script Kiddies, and Hacktivists

#### HACKERS, SCRIPT KIDDIES, AND HACKTIVISTS

To fully assess intent and capability, it is helpful to identify different categories of threat actors.

**Hackers**  
**Hacker** describes an individual who has the skills to gain access to computer systems through unauthorized or unapproved means. Originally, _hacker_ was a neutral term for a user who excelled at computer programming and computer system administration. Hacking into a system was a sign of technical skill and creativity that gradually became associated with illegal or malicious system intrusions. The terms **black hat** (unauthorized) and **white hat** (authorized) are used to distinguish these motivations. Of course, between black and white lie some shades of gray. A **gray hat hacker** (semi-authorized) might try to find vulnerabilities in a product or network without seeking the approval of the owner; but they might not try to exploit any vulnerabilities they find. A gray hat might seek voluntary compensation of some sort (a bug bounty), but will not use an exploit as extortion. A white hat hacker always seeks authorization to perform penetration testing of private and proprietary systems.

**Script Kiddies**  
A **script kiddie** is someone who uses hacker tools without necessarily understanding how they work or having the ability to craft new attacks. Script kiddie attacks might have no specific target or any reasonable goal other than gaining attention or proving technical abilities.

**Hacker Teams and Hacktivists**  
The historical image of a hacker is that of a loner, acting as an individual with few resources or funding. While any such "lone hacker" remains a threat that must be accounted for, threat actors are now likely to work as part of some sort of team or group. The collaborative team effort means that these types of threat actors are able to develop sophisticated tools and novel strategies.

A _hacktivist group_, such as Anonymous, WikiLeaks, or LulzSec, uses cyber weapons to promote a political agenda. **Hacktivists** might attempt to obtain and release confidential information to the public domain, perform denial of service (DoS) attacks, or deface websites. Political, media, and financial groups and companies are probably most at risk, but environmental and animal advocacy groups may target companies in a wide range of industries.