# Insider Threat Actors

#### INSIDER THREAT ACTORS

Many threat actors operate externally from the networks they target. An external actor has to break into the system without having been granted any legitimate permissions. An **insider threat** arises from an actor who has been identified by the organization and granted some sort of access. Within this group of internal threats, you can distinguish insiders with permanent privileges, such as employees, from insiders with temporary privileges, such as contractors and guests. The Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) at Carnegie Mellon University's definition of a malicious insider is:

> A current or former employee, contractor, or business partner who has or had authorized access to an organization’s network, system, or data and intentionally exceeded or misused that access in a manner that negatively affected the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of the organization’s information or information systems. ([insights.sei.cmu.edu/insider-threat/2017/03/cert-definition-of-insider-threat---updated.html](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/insider-threat-actors))
> 
> _There is the blurred case of former insiders, such as ex-employees now working at another company or who have been dismissed and now harbor a grievance. These can be classified as internal threats or treated as external threats with insider knowledge, and possibly some residual permissions, if effective offboarding controls are not in place._

CERT identifies the main motivators for malicious insider threats as sabotage, financial gain, and business advantage. Like external threats, insider threats can be opportunistic or targeted. Again, the key point here is to identify likely motivations, such as employees who might harbor grievances or those likely to perpetrate fraud. An employee who plans and executes a campaign to modify invoices and divert funds is launching a structured attack; an employee who tries to guess the password on the salary database a couple of times, having noticed that the file is available on the network, is perpetrating an opportunistic attack. You must also assess the possibility that an insider threat may be working in collaboration with an external threat actor or group.

Insider threats can be categorized as unintentional. An **unintentional or inadvertent insider threat** is a vector for an external actor, or a separate—malicious—internal actor to exploit, rather than a threat actor in its own right. Unintentional threats usually arise from lack of awareness or from carelessness, such as users demonstrating poor password management. Another example of unintentional insider threat is the concept of **shadow IT**, where users purchase or introduce computer hardware or software to the workplace without the sanction of the IT department and without going through a procurement and security analysis process. The problem of shadow IT is exacerbated by the proliferation of cloud services and mobile devices, which are easy for users to obtain. Shadow IT creates a new unmonitored attack surface for malicious adversaries to exploit.