# Attack Surface and Attack Vectors

#### ATTACK SURFACE AND ATTACK VECTORS

The **attack surface** is all the points at which a malicious threat actor could try to exploit a vulnerability. To evaluate the attack surface, you need to consider the type of threat actor. The attack surface for an external actor is (or should be) far smaller than that for an insider threat. The attack surface can be considered for a network as a whole, but is also analyzed for individual software applications. Minimizing the attack surface means restricting access so that only a few known endpoints, protocols/ports, and services/methods are permitted. Each of these must be assessed for vulnerabilities.

From the point-of-view of the threat actor, different parts of the attack surface represent potential **attack vectors**. An attack vector is the path that a threat actor uses to gain access to a secure system. In the majority of cases, gaining access means being able to run malicious code on the target.

-   Direct access—this is a type of physical or local attack. The threat actor could exploit an unlocked workstation, use a boot disk to try to install malicious tools, or steal a device, for example.
-   Removable media—the attacker conceals malware on a USB thumb drive or memory card and tries to trick employees into connecting the media to a PC, laptop, or smartphone. For some exploits, simply connecting the media may be sufficient to run the malware. In many cases, the attacker may need the employee to open a file in a vulnerable application or run a setup program.
-   Email—the attacker sends a malicious file attachment via email, or via any other communications system that allows attachments. The attacker needs to use social engineering techniques to persuade or trick the user into opening the attachment.
-   Remote and wireless—the attacker either obtains credentials for a remote access or wireless connection to the network or cracks the security protocols used for authentication. Alternatively, the attacker spoofs a trusted resource, such as an access point, and uses it to perform credential harvesting and then uses the stolen account details to access the network.
-   **Supply chain**—rather than attack the target directly, a threat actor may seek ways to infiltrate it via companies in its supply chain. One high-profile example of this is the Target data breach, which was made via the company's HVAC supplier ([krebsonsecurity.com/2014/02/target-hackers-broke-in-via-hvac-company](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/attack-surface-and-attack-vectors)).
-   Web and social media—malware may be concealed in files attached to posts or presented as downloads. An attacker may also be able to compromise a site so that it automatically infects vulnerable browser software (a drive-by download). Social media may also be used more subtly, to reinforce a social engineering campaign and drive the adoption of Trojans.
-   Cloud—many companies now run part or all of their network services via Internet-accessible clouds. The attacker only needs to find one account, service, or host with weak credentials to gain access. The attacker is likely to target the accounts used to develop services in the cloud or manage cloud systems. They may also try to attack the cloud service provider (CSP) as a way of accessing the victim system.

Sophisticated threat actors will make use of multiple vectors. They are likely to plan a multi-stage campaign, rather than a single "smash and grab" type of raid.