# Artificial Intelligence and Predictive Analysis

#### ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND PREDICTIVE ANALYSIS

A threat data feed does not produce threat intelligence automatically. The combination of security intelligence and CTI data can be processed, correlated, and analyzed to provide actionable insights that will assist you in identifying security problems. For example, security intelligence reveals that DDoS attacks were perpetrated against your web services from a range of IP addresses by collecting log and network traffic data. Threat intelligence associates those IP addresses with a hacktivist group. By linking the two sources of intelligence, you can identify goals and tactics associated with that group and use controls to mitigate further attacks. Most threat intelligence platforms use some sort of artificial intelligence (AI) to perform correlation analysis.

**AI and Machine Learning**  
AI is the science of creating machine systems that can simulate or demonstrate a similar general intelligence capability to humans. Early types of AI—expert systems—use if-then rules to draw inferences from a limited data set, called a _knowledge_ base. **Machine learning (ML)** uses algorithms to parse input data and then develop strategies for using that data, such as identifying an object as a type, working out the best next move in a game, and so on. Unlike an expert system, machine learning can modify the algorithms it uses to parse data and develop strategies. It can make gradual improvements in the decision-making processes. The structure that facilitates this learning process is referred to as an artificial neural network (ANN). Nodes in a neural network take inputs and then derive outputs, using complex feedback loops between nodes. An ML system has objectives and error states and it adjusts its neural network to reduce errors and optimize objectives.

In terms of threat intelligence, this AI-backed analysis might perform accurate correlations that would take tens or hundreds of hours of analyst time if the data were to be examined manually.

**Predictive Analysis**  
Identifying the signs of a past attack or the presence of live attack tools on a network quickly is valuable. However, one of the goals of using AI-backed threat intelligence is to perform predictive analysis, or threat forecasting. This means that the system can anticipate a particular type of attack and possibly the identity of the threat actor before the attack is fully realized. For example, the system tags references to a company, related IP addresses, and account names across a range of ingested data from dark web sources, web searches, social media posts, phishing email attempts, and so on. The analysis engine associates this "chatter" with IP addresses that it can correlate with a known adversary group. This gives the target advance warning that an attack is in the planning stages and more time to prepare an effective defense.

Such concrete threat forecasting is not a proven capability of any commercial threat intelligence platform at the time of writing. However, predictive analysis can inform risk assessment by giving more accurate, quantified measurements of the likelihood and impact (cost) of breach-type events.