# Public and Private Key Usage

#### PUBLIC AND PRIVATE KEY USAGE

Public key cryptography solves the problem of distributing encryption keys when you want to communicate securely with others or authenticate a message that you send to others.

-   When you want others to send you confidential messages, you give them your public key to use to encrypt the message. The message can then only be decrypted by your private key, which you keep known only to yourself.
    
-   When you want to authenticate yourself to others, you create a signature and sign it by encrypting the signature with your private key. You give others your public key to use to decrypt the signature. As only you know the private key, everyone can be assured that only you could have created the signature.
    

The basic problem with public key cryptography is that you may not really know with whom you are communicating. The system is vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks. This problem is particularly evident with e-commerce. How can you be sure that a shopping site or banking service is really maintained by whom it claims? The fact that the site is distributing public keys to secure communications is no guarantee of actual identity. How do you know that you are corresponding directly with the site using its certificate? How can you be sure there isn't a man-in-the-middle intercepting and modifying what you think the legitimate server is sending you?

**Public key infrastructure (PKI)** aims to prove that the owners of public keys are who they say they are. Under PKI, anyone issuing public keys should obtain a digital certificate. The validity of the certificate is guaranteed by a certificate authority (CA). The validity of the CA can be established using various models.