# Certificate Issues

#### CERTIFICATE ISSUES

The most common problem when dealing with certificate issues is that of a client rejecting a server certificate (or slightly less commonly, an authentication server rejecting a client's certificate).

-   If the problem is with an existing certificate that has been working previously, check that the certificate has not expired or been revoked or suspended.
    
-   If the problem is with a new certificate, check that the key usage settings are appropriate for the application. Some clients, such as VPN and email clients, have very specific requirements for key usage configuration. Also, check that the subject name is correctly configured and that the client is using the correct address. For example, if a client tries to connect to a server by IP address instead of FQDN, a certificate configured with an FQDN will be rejected.
    
-   If troubleshooting a new certificate that is correctly configured, check that clients have been configured with the appropriate chain of trust. You need to install root and intermediate CA certificates on the client before a leaf certificate can be trusted. Be aware that some client applications might maintain a different certificate store to that of the OS.
    
-   In either case, verify that the time and date settings on the server and client are synchronized. Incorrect date/time settings are a common cause of certificate problems.
    

From a security point of view, you must also audit certificate infrastructure to ensure that only valid certificates are being issued and trusted. Review logs of issued certificates periodically. Validate the permissions of users assigned to manage certificate services. Check clients to ensure that only valid root CA certificates are trusted. Make sure clients are checking for revoked or suspended certificates.