# Next-generation Firewalls and Content Filters

#### NEXT-GENERATION FIREWALLS AND CONTENT FILTERS

While intrusion detection was originally produced as standalone software or appliances, its functionality very quickly became incorporated into a new generation of firewalls. The original **next-generation firewall (NGFW)** was released as far back as 2010 by Palo Alto. This product combined application-aware filtering with user account-based filtering and the ability to act as an intrusion prevention system (IPS). This approach was quickly adopted by competitor products. Subsequent firewall generations have added capabilities such as cloud inspection and combined features of different security technologies.

**Unified Threat Management (UTM)**  
**Unified threat management (UTM)** refers to a security product that centralizes many types of security controls—firewall, anti-malware, network intrusion prevention, spam filtering, content filtering, data loss prevention, VPN, cloud access gateway—into a single appliance. This means that you can monitor and manage the controls from a single console. Nevertheless, UTM has some downsides. When defense is unified under a single system, this creates the potential for a single point of failure that could affect an entire network. Distinct security systems, if they fail, might only compromise that particular avenue of attack. Additionally, UTM systems can struggle with latency issues if they are subject to too much network activity. Also, a UTM might not perform as well as software or a device with a single dedicated security function.

> _To some extent, NGFW and UTM are just marketing terms. A UTM is seen as turnkey "do everything" solution, while a NGFW is an enterprise product with fewer features, or more modularization, and greater configuration complexity, but better performance. It can be more helpful to focus on the specific product features, rather than trying to present an implementation decision as a choice of either a NGFW or a UTM._

**Content/URL Filter**  
A firewall has to sustain high loads, and overloads can increase latency or even cause outages. The high complexity of application-aware NGFW and UTM solutions can reduce their suitability as an edge device, because while they might provide high confidentiality and integrity, lower throughput reduces availability. One solution to this is to treat security solutions for server traffic differently from that for user traffic. User traffic refers to web browsing, social networking, email, and video/VoIP connections initiated by local network clients.

Consequently, where a stateful or NGFW firewall may be deployed for application server traffic, the job of filtering user traffic is often performed by a separate appliance or proxy host. A **content filter** is designed to apply a number of user-focused filtering rules, such as blocking uniform resource locators (URLs) that appear on content block lists or applying time-based restrictions to browsing. Content filters are now usually implemented as a class of product called a **secure web gateway (SWG)**. As well as filtering, a SWG performs threat analysis and often integrates the functionality of data loss prevention (DLP) and cloud access security brokers (CASB) to protect against the full range of unauthorized egress threats, including malware command and control and data exfiltration.