# Monitoring Services

#### MONITORING SERVICES

Security assessments and incident response both require real-time monitoring of host and network status indicators plus audit information.

**Packet Capture**  
Data captured from network sensors/sniffers plus netflow sources provides both summary statistics about bandwidth and protocol usage and the opportunity for detailed frame analysis.

**Network Monitors**  
As distinct from network traffic monitoring, a **network monitor** collects data about network appliances, such as switches, access points, routers, firewalls, and servers. This is used to monitor load status for CPU/memory, state tables, disk capacity, fan speeds/temperature, network link utilization/error statistics, and so on. Another important function is a heartbeat message to indicate availability. This data might be collected using the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) or a proprietary management system. As well as supporting availability, network monitoring might reveal unusual conditions that could point to some kind of attack.

**Logs**  
Logs are one of the most valuable sources of security information. A system log can be used to diagnose availability issues. A security log can record both authorized and unauthorized uses of a resource or privilege. Logs function both as an audit trail of actions and (if monitored regularly) provide a warning of intrusion attempts. Log review is a critical part of security assurance. Only referring to the logs following a major incident is missing the opportunity to identify threats and vulnerabilities early and to respond proactively.

> _Logs typically associate an action with a particular user. This is one of the reasons that it is critical that users not share logon details. If a user account is compromised, there is no means of tying events in the log to the actual attacker._