# Analysis and Report Review

#### ANALYSIS AND REPORT REVIEW

Where collection and aggregation produce inputs, a SIEM is also used for reporting. A critical function of SIEM—and the principal factor distinguishing it from basic log management—is that of correlation. This means that the SIEM software can link individual events or data points (observables) into a meaningful indicator of risk, or Indicator of Compromise (IOC). Correlation can then be used to drive an alerting system. These reports would be viewed from the SIEM dashboard.

Basic correlation can be performed using simple If…Then type rules. However, many SIEM solutions use artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning as the basis for automated analysis.

**User and Entity Behavior Analytics**  
A user and entity behavior analytics (UEBA) solution supports identification of malicious behaviors from comparison to a baseline. As the name suggests, the analytics software tracks user account behavior across different devices and cloud services. Entity refers to machine accounts, such as client workstations or virtualized server instances, and to embedded hardware, such as Internet of Things (IoT) devices. The complexity of determining baselines and reducing false positives means that UEBA solutions are heavily dependent on AI and machine learning. Examples include Microsoft's Advanced Threat Analytics ([docs.microsoft.com/en-us/advanced-threat-analytics/what-is-ata](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/analysis-and-report-review)) and Splunk UEBA ([splunk.com/en\_us/software/user-behavior-analytics.html](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/analysis-and-report-review)).

**Sentiment Analysis**  
One of the biggest challenges for behavior analytics driven by machine learning is to identify intent. It is extremely difficult for a machine to establish the context and interpretation of statements in natural language, though much progress is being made. The general efforts in this area are referred to as **sentiment analysis**, or emotion AI. The typical use case for sentiment analysis is to monitor social media for brand "incidents," such as a disgruntled customer announcing on Twitter what poor customer service they have just received. In terms of security, this can be used to gather threat intelligence and try to identify external or insider threats before they can develop as attacks.

**Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response**  
Security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR) is designed as a solution to the problem of the volume of alerts overwhelming analysts' ability to respond. A SOAR may be implemented as a standalone technology or integrated with a SIEM—often referred to as a next-gen SIEM. The basis of SOAR is to scan the organization's store of security and threat intelligence, analyze it using machine/deep learning techniques, and then use that data to automate and provide data enrichment for the workflows that drive incident response and threat hunting.