# Regular Expressions and grep

#### REGULAR EXPRESSIONS AND GREP

Filtering a log to discover data points of interest usually involves some sort of string search, typically invoking **regular expression (regex)** syntax. A regular expression is a search pattern to match within a given string. The search pattern is built from the regex syntax. This syntax defines metacharacters that function as search operators, quantifiers, logic statements, and anchors/boundaries. The following list illustrates some commonly used elements of regex syntax:

-   `[ … ]` matches a single instance of a character within the brackets. This can include literals, ranges such as `[a-z]`, and token matches, such as `[\s]` (white space) or `[\d]` (one digit).

-   \` +\` matches one or more occurrences. A quantifier is placed after the term to match; for example,\` \\s+\` matches one or more white space characters.

  

-   \`\*\` matches zero or more times.

  

-   \`?\` matches once or not at all.

  

-   \`{}\` matches a number of times. For example, \`{2}\` matches two times, \`{2,}\` matches two or more times, and \`{2-5}\` matches two to five times.

  

> _A complete description of regex syntax is beyond the scope of this course, but you can use an online reference such as [regexr.com](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/regular-expressions-and-grep) or [rexegg.com](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/regular-expressions-and-grep) to learn it._

The **grep command** invokes simple string matching or regex syntax to search text files for specific strings. This enables you to search the entire contents of a text file for a specific pattern within each line and display that pattern on the screen or dump it to another file. A simple example of `grep` usage is as follows:

```Bash
grep -F 192.168.1.254 access.log
```

This searches the text file access.log for all lines containing some variation of the literal string pattern `192.168.1.254` and prints only those lines to the terminal. The `-F` switch instructs grep to treat the pattern as a literal.

The following example searches for any IP address in the 192.168.1.0/24 subnet using regex syntax for the pattern (note that each period must be escaped) within any file in any directory from the current one. The `-r` option enables recursion, while the period in the target part indicates the current directory:

```Bash
grep -r 192\.168\.1\.[\d]{1,3} ./*
```