# POWER REDUNDANCY

#### POWER REDUNDANCY

All types of computer systems require a stable power supply to operate. Electrical events, such as voltage spikes or surges, can crash computers and network appliances, while loss of power from **brownouts** or blackouts will cause equipment to fail. Power management means deploying systems to ensure that equipment is protected against these events and that network operations can either continue uninterrupted or be recovered quickly.

**Dual Power Supplies**  

An enterprise-class server or appliance enclosure is likely to feature two or more power supply units (PSUs) for redundancy. A hot plug PSU can be replaced (in the event of failure) without powering down the system.

**Managed Power Distribution Units (PDUs)**  

The power circuits supplying grid power to a rack, network closet, or server room must be enough to meet the load capacity of all the installed equipment, plus room for growth. Consequently, circuits to a server room will typically be higher capacity than domestic or office circuits (30 or 60 amps as opposed to 13 amps, for instance). These circuits may be run through a **power distribution unit (PDU)**. These come with circuitry to "clean" the power signal, provide protection against spikes, surges, and brownouts, and can integrate with uninterruptible power supplies (UPSs). Managed PDUs support remote power monitoring functions, such as reporting load and status, switching power to a socket on and off, or switching sockets on in a particular sequence.

**Battery Backups and Uninterruptible Power Supplies (UPSs)**  

If there is loss of power, system operation can be sustained for a few minutes or hours (depending on load) using battery backup. Battery backup can be provisioned at the component level for disk drives and RAID arrays. The battery protects any read or write operations cached at the time of power loss. At the system level, an **uninterruptible power supply (UPS)** will provide a temporary power source in the event of a blackout (complete power loss). This may range from a few minutes for a desktop-rated model to hours for an enterprise system. In its simplest form, a UPS comprises a bank of batteries and their charging circuit plus an inverter to generate AC voltage from the DC voltage supplied by the batteries.

The time allowed by a UPS should be sufficient to failover to an alternative power source, such as a standby generator. If there is no secondary power source, UPS will at least allow the administrator to shut down the server or appliance properly—users can save files, and the OS can complete the proper shut down routines.

**Generators**  

A **backup power generator** can provide power to the whole building, often for several days. Most generators use diesel, propane, or natural gas as a fuel source. With diesel and propane, the main drawback is safe storage (diesel also has a shelf-life of between 18 months and two years); with natural gas, the issue is the reliability of the gas supply in the event of a natural disaster. Data centers are also investing in renewable power sources, such as solar, wind, geothermal, hydrogen fuel cells, and hydro. The ability to use renewable power is a strong factor in determining the best site for new data centers. Large-scale battery solutions, such as Tesla's Powerpack (tesla.com/powerpack), may be able to provide an alternative to backup power generators. There are also emerging technologies to use all the battery resources of a data center as a microgrid for power storage (scientificamerican.com/article/how-big-batteries-at-data-centers-could-replace-power-plants).

> _A UPS is always required to protect against any interruption to computer services. A backup generator cannot be brought online fast enough to respond to a power failure._