# DISK REDUNDANCY

#### DISK REDUNDANCY

Disk and storage resources are critically dependent on redundancy. While backup provides integrity for when a disk fails, to restore from backup would require installing a new storage unit, restoring the data, and testing the system configuration. Disk redundancy ensures that a server can continue to operate if one, or possibly more, storage devices fail.

**Redundant Array of Independent Disks (RAID)**  
When a storage system is configured as a **Redundant Array of Independent Disks (RAID)**, many disks can act as backups for each other to increase reliability and fault tolerance. If one disk fails, the data is not lost, and the server can keep functioning. The RAID advisory board defines RAID levels, numbered from 0 to 6, where each level corresponds to a specific type of fault tolerance. There are also proprietary and nested RAID solutions. Some of the most commonly implemented types of RAID are listed in the following table.

RAID Level | Fault Tolerance
---- | ----
Level 1 | Mirroring means that data is written to two disks simultaneously, providing redundancy (if one disk fails, there is a copy of data on the other). The main drawback is that storage efficiency is only 50%.
Level 5 | Striping with parity means that data is written across three or more disks, but additional information (parity) is calculated. This allows the volume to continue if one disk is lost. This solution has better storage efficiency than RAID 1.
Level 6 | Double parity, or level 5 with an additional parity stripe, allows the volume to continue when two devices have been lost.
Nested  (0+1, 1+0, or 5+0) | Nesting RAID sets generally improves performance or redundancy. For example, some nested RAID solutions can support the failure of more than one disk.

  

> _RAID level 0 refers to striping without parity. Data is written in blocks across several disks simultaneously, but with no redundancy. This can improve performance, but if one disk fails, so does the whole volume, and data on it will be corrupted. There are some use cases for RAID 0, but typically striping without parity is only implemented to improve performance in a nested RAID solution._

**Multipath**  
Where RAID provides redundancy for the storage devices, **multipath** is focused on the bus between the server and the storage devices or RAID array. A storage system is accessed via some type of controller. The controller might be connected to disk units locally installed in a server, or it might connect to storage devices within a storage area network (SAN). Multipath input/ouput (I/O) ensures that there is controller redundancy and/or multiple network paths to the storage devices.