# GEOGRAPHICAL REDUNDANCY AND REPLICATION

#### GEOGRAPHICAL REDUNDANCY AND REPLICATION

Data replication is technology that maintains exact copies of data at more than one location. RAID **mirroring** and parity implements types of replication between local storage devices. Data replication can be applied in many other contexts:

-   Storage Area Network (SAN)—most enterprise storage is configured as a SAN. A SAN is a high-speed fiber optic network of storage devices built from technologies such as Fibre Channel, Small Computer System Interface (SCSI), or **Infiniband**. Redundancy can be provided within the SAN, and replication can also take place between SANs using WAN links.

-   Database—much data is stored within a database. Where a database is replicated between multiple servers or sites, it is very important to maintain consistency between the replicas. Database management systems come with specific tools to implement different kinds of replication.
-   Virtual Machine (VM)—the same VM instance may need to be deployed in multiple locations. This can be achieved by replicating the VM's disk image and configuration settings.

  

**Geographical Dispersal**  
**Geographical dispersal** refers to data replicating hot and warm sites that are physically distant from one another. This means that data is protected against a natural disaster wiping out storage at one of the sites. This is also described as a geo-redundant solution.

**Asynchronous and Synchronous Replication**  
Synchronous replication is designed to write data to all replicas simultaneously. Therefore, all replicas should always have the same data all of the time. Asynchronous replication writes data to the primary storage first, and then copies data to the replicas at scheduled intervals.

Asynchronous replication isn't a good choice for a solution that requires data in multiple locations to be consistent, such as data from product inventory lists accessed in different regions. Many geo-redundant replication services rely on asynchronous replication due to the distances between data centers in multiple regions. In some cases, business solutions work around the limitations of asynchronous replication. For example, an online retailer may choose only to show inventory from their local regional warehouse.

**On-Premises versus Cloud**  
High availability through redundancy and replication is resource-intensive, especially when configuring multiple hot or warm sites. For on-premises sites, provisioning the storage devices and high-bandwidth, low-latency WAN links required between two geographically dispersed hot sites could incur unaffordable costs. This cost is one of the big drivers of cloud services, where local and geographic redundancy are built into the system, if you trust the CSP to operate the cloud effectively. For example, in the cloud, geo-redundancy replicates data or services between data centers physically located in two different regions. Disasters that occur at the regional level, like earthquakes, hurricanes, or floods, should not impact availability across multiple zones.