# CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT

#### CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT

Response and recovery controls refer to the whole set of policies, procedures, and resources created for incident and disaster response and recovery. These controls are critical to cybersecurity, but they become increasingly difficult to provision at scale. Effective response and recovery depend heavily on how well-organized IT systems are at the site level. Without effective organizational policies to govern change and configuration management, response and recovery is much harder.

**Configuration management** ensures that each component of ICT infrastructure is in a trusted state that has not diverged from its documented properties. **Change control** and **change management** reduce the risk that changes to these components could cause service disruption.

**ITIL**® is a popular documentation of good and best practice activities and processes for delivering IT services. Under ITIL, configuration management is implemented using the following elements:

-   Service **assets** are things, processes, or people that contribute to the delivery of an IT service.

-   A Configuration Item (CI) is an asset that requires specific management procedures for it to be used to deliver the service. Each CI must be identified by some sort of label, ideally using a standard naming convention. CIs are defined by their attributes and relationships, which are stored in a configuration management database (CMDB).
-   A **baseline configuration** is the template of settings that a device, VM instance, or other CI was configured to, and that it should continue to match. You might also record performance baselines, such as the throughput achieved by a server, for comparison with monitored levels.
-   A configuration management system (CMS) is the tools and databases that collect, store, manage, update, and present information about CIs and their relationships. A small network might capture this information in spreadsheets and diagrams; there are dedicated applications for enterprise CMS.
-   Diagrams are the best way to capture the complex relationships between network elements. Diagrams can be used to show how CIs are involved in business workflows, logical (IP) and physical network topologies, and network rack layouts. Remember, it is not sufficient simply to create the diagram, you must also keep the diagram up to date.