# SITE RESILIENCY

#### SITE RESILIENCY

Enterprise-level networks often provision resiliency at the site level. An alternate processing or recovery site is a location that can provide the same (or similar) level of service. An alternate processing site might always be available and in use, while a recovery site might take longer to set up or only be used in an emergency.

Operations are designed to failover to the new site until the previous site can be brought back online. Failover is a technique that ensures a redundant component, device, application, or site can quickly and efficiently take over the functionality of an asset that has failed. For example, load balancers provide failover in the event that one or more servers or sites behind the load balancer are down or are taking too long to respond. Once the load balancer detects this, it will redirect inbound traffic to an alternate processing server or site. Thus, redundant servers in the load balancer pool ensure there is no or minimal interruption of service.

Site resiliency is described as hot, warm, or cold:

-   A **hot site** can failover almost immediately. It generally means that the site is already within the organization's ownership and is ready to deploy. For example, a hot site could consist of a building with operational computer equipment that is kept updated with a live data set.
-   A **warm site** could be similar, but with the requirement that the latest data set will need to be loaded.
-   A **cold site** takes longer to set up. A cold site may be an empty building with a lease agreement in place to install whatever equipment is required when necessary.

Clearly, providing redundancy on this scale can be very expensive. Sites are often leased from service providers. However, in the event of a nationwide emergency, demand for the services is likely to exceed supply! Another option is for businesses to enter into reciprocal arrangements to provide mutual support. This is cost effective but complex to plan and set up.

Another issue is that creating a duplicate of anything doubles the complexity of securing that resource properly. The same security procedures must apply to redundant sites, spare systems, and backup data as apply to the main copy.

For many companies, the most cost-effective solution is to move processing and data storage to the cloud.