# DIVERSITY AND DEFENSE IN DEPTH

#### DIVERSITY AND DEFENSE IN DEPTH

**Layered** security is typically seen as improving cybersecurity resiliency because it provides **defense in depth**. The idea is that to fully compromise a system, the attacker must get past multiple security controls, providing control diversity. These layers reduce the potential attack surface and make it much more likely that an attack will be deterred or prevented, or at least detected and then prevented by manual intervention.

**Technology and Control Diversity**  
Allied with defense in depth is the concept of security through (or with) **diversity**. Technology diversity refers to environments that are a mix of operating systems, applications, coding languages, virtualization solutions, and so on. Control diversity means that the layers of controls should combine different classes of technical and administrative controls with the range of control functions: prevent, detect, correct, and deter.

Consider the scenario where Alan from marketing is sent a USB stick containing designs for a new billboard campaign from an agency. Without defense in depth, Alan might find the USB stick on his desk in the morning, plug it into his laptop without much thought, and from that point is potentially vulnerable to compromise. There are many opportunities in this scenario for an attacker to tamper with the media: at the agency, in the post, or at Alan's desk.

Defense in depth, established by deploying a diverse range of security controls, could mitigate the numerous risks inherent in this scenario:

-   User training (administrative control) could ensure that the media is not left unattended on a desk and is not inserted into a computer system without scanning it first.

-   Endpoint security (technical control) on the laptop could scan the media for malware or block access automatically.
-   Security locks inserted into USB ports (physical control) on the laptop could prevent attachment of media without requesting a key, allowing authorization checks to be performed first.
-   Permissions restricting Alan's user account (technical control) could prevent the malware from executing successfully.
-   The use of encrypted and digitally signed media (technical control) could prevent or identify an attempt to tamper with it.
-   If the laptop were compromised, intrusion detection and logging/alerting systems (technical control) could detect and prevent the malware spreading on the network.

**Vendor Diversity**  
As well as deploying multiple types of controls, you should consider the advantages of leveraging vendor diversity. Vendor diversity means that security controls are sourced from multiple suppliers. A single vendor solution is a tempting choice for many organizations, as it provides interoperability and can reduce training and support costs. Some disadvantages could include the following:

-   Not obtaining best-in-class performance—one vendor might provide an effective firewall solution, but the bundled malware scanning is found to be less effective.

-   Less complex attack surface—a single vulnerability in a supplier's code could put multiple appliances at risk in a single vendor solution. A threat actor will be able to identify controls and possible weaknesses more easily.
-   Less innovation—dependence on a single vendor might make the organization invest too much trust in that vendor's solutions and less willing to research and test new approaches.

**Crypto Diversity**  
This concept can be extended to the selection of algorithms and implementations of cryptography. Adoption of methods such as blockchain-based Identity and Access Management (IAM) (ibm.com/blogs/blockchain/2018/10/decentralized-identity-an-alternative-to-password-based-authentication) or selecting ChaCha in place of Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) as a preferred cipher suite (blog.cloudflare.com/it-takes-two-to-chacha-poly) forces threat actors to develop new attack methods.