# CYBER INCIDENT RESPONSE TEAM

#### CYBER INCIDENT RESPONSE TEAM

Preparing for incident response means establishing the policies and procedures for dealing with security breaches and the personnel and resources to implement those policies.

One of the first challenges lies in defining and categorizing types of incidents. An incident is generally described as an event where security is breached or there is an attempted breach. NIST describes an incident as "the act of violating an explicit or implied security policy." In order to identify and manage incidents, you should develop some method of reporting, categorizing, and prioritizing them (triage), in the same way that troubleshooting support incidents can be logged and managed.

As well as investment in appropriate detection and analysis software, incident response requires expert staffing. Large organizations will provide a dedicated team as a single point-of-contact for the notification of security incidents. This team is variously described as a cyber incident response team (CIRT), computer security incident response team (CSIRT), or computer emergency response team (CERT). Incident response might also involve or be wholly located within a security operations center (SOC). However it is set up, the team needs a mixture of senior management decision-makers (up to director level) who can authorize actions following the most serious incidents, managers, and technicians who can deal with minor incidents on their own initiative.

Another important consideration is availability. Incident response will typically require 24/7 availability, which will be expensive to provide. It is also worth considering that members of the CIRT should be rotated periodically to preclude the possibility of infiltration. For major incidents, expertise and advice from other business divisions will also need to be called upon:

-   Legal—it is important to have access to legal expertise, so that the team can evaluate incident response from the perspective of compliance with laws and industry regulations. It may also be necessary to liaise closely with law enforcement professionals, and this can be daunting without expert legal advice.
  
-   Human Resources (HR)—incident prevention and remediation actions may affect employee contracts, employment law, and so on. Incident response requires the right to intercept and monitor employee communications.
  
-   Marketing—the team is likely to require marketing or public relations input, so that any negative publicity from a serious incident can be managed.
  

Some organizations may prefer to outsource some of the CIRT functions to third-party agencies by retaining an incident response provider. External agents are able to deal more effectively with insider threats.