# INCIDENT RESPONSE, DISASTER RECOVERY, AND RETENTION POLICY

#### INCIDENT RESPONSE, DISASTER RECOVERY, AND RETENTION POLICY

Incident response fits into overall planning for enterprise risk management and cybersecurity resilience.

**Incident Response versus Disaster Recovery and Business Continuity**  
You should distinguish specific incident response planning from other types of planning for disaster recovery and business continuity:

-   Disaster recovery plan—a disaster can be seen as a special class of incident where the organization's primary business function is disrupted. Disaster recovery requires considerable resources, such as shifting processing to a secondary site. Disaster recovery will involve a wider range of stakeholders than less serious incidents.
  
-   **Business continuity plan (BCP)**—this identifies how business processes should deal with both minor and disaster-level disruption. During an incident, a system may need to be isolated. Continuity planning ensures that there is processing redundancy supporting the workflow, so that when a server is taken offline for security remediation, processing can failover to a separate system. If systems do not have this sort of planned resilience, incident response will be much more disruptive.
  
-   **Continuity of Operation Planning (COOP)**—this terminology is used for government facilities, but is functionally similar to business continuity planning. In some definitions, COOP refers specifically to backup methods of performing mission functions without IT support.
  

**Incident Response, Forensics, and Retention Policy**  
The incident response process emphasizes containment, eradication, and recovery. These aims are not entirely compatible with forensics. Digital forensics describes techniques to collect and preserve evidence that demonstrate that there has been no tampering or manipulation. Forensics procedures are detailed and time-consuming, where the aims of incident response are usually urgent. If an investigation must use forensic collection methods so that evidence is retained, this must be specified early in the response process.

**Retention policy** is also important for retrospective incident handling, or threat hunting. A retention policy for historic logs and data captures sets the period over which these are retained. You might discover indicators of a breach months or years after the event. Without a retention policy to keep logs and other digital evidence, it will not be possible to make any further investigation.