# INCIDENT IDENTIFICATION

#### INCIDENT IDENTIFICATION

Identification is the process of collating events and determining whether any of them should be managed as incidents or as possible precursors to an incident; that is, an event that makes an incident more likely to happen. There are multiple channels by which events or precursors may be recorded:

-   Using log files, error messages, IDS alerts, firewall alerts, and other resources to establish baselines and identifying those parameters that indicate a possible security incident.
  
-   Comparing deviations to established metrics to recognize incidents and their scopes.
  
-   Manual or physical inspections of site, premises, networks, and hosts.
  
-   Notification by an employee, customer, or supplier.
  
-   Public reporting of new vulnerabilities or threats by a system vendor, regulator, the media, or other outside party.
  

It is wise to provide for confidential reporting so that employees are not afraid to report insider threats, such as fraud or misconduct. It may also be necessary to use an "out-of-band" method of communication so as not to alert the intruder that his or her attack has been detected.

**First Responder**  
When a suspicious event is detected, it is critical that the appropriate person on the CIRT be notified so that they can take charge of the situation and formulate the appropriate response. This person is referred to as the **first responder**. This means that employees at all levels of the organization must be trained to recognize and respond appropriately to actual or suspected security incidents. A good level of security awareness across the whole organization will reduce the incidence of false positives and negatives. For the most serious incidents, the entire CIRT may be involved in formulating an effective response.

**Analysis and Incident Identification**  
When notification has taken place, the CIRT or other responsible person(s) must analyze the event to determine whether a genuine incident has been identified and what level of priority it should be assigned. Analysis will depend on identifying the type of incident and the data or resources affected (its scope and impact). At this point, the incident management database should have a record of the event indicators, the nature of the incident, its impact, and the incident investigator responsible. The next phase of incident management is to determine an appropriate response.