# TREND ANALYSIS

#### TREND ANALYSIS

**Trend analysis** is the process of detecting patterns or indicators within a data set over a time series and using those patterns to make predictions about future events. A trend is difficult to spot by examining each event in a log file. Instead, you need software to visualize the incidence of types of event and show how the number or frequency of those events changes over time. Trend analysis can apply to frequency, volume, or statistical deviation:

-   Frequency-based trend analysis establishes a baseline for a metric, such as number of NXERROR DNS log events per hour of the day. If the frequency exceeds (or in some cases undershoots) the threshold for the baseline, then an alert is raised.
  
-   Volume-based trend analysis can be performed with simpler indicators. For example, one simple metric for determining threat level is log volume. If logs are growing much faster than they were previously, there is a good chance that something needs investigating. Volume-based analysis also applies to network traffic. You might also measure endpoint disk usage. Client workstations don’t usually need to store data locally, so if a host's disk capacity has suddenly diminished, it could be a sign that it is being used to stage data for exfiltration.
  
-   Statistical deviation analysis can show when a data point should be treated as suspicious. For example, a cluster graph might show activity by standard users and privileged users, invoking analysis of behavioral metrics of what processes each type runs, which systems they access, and so on. A data point that appears outside the two clusters for standard and administrative users might indicate some suspicious activity by that account.