# LOGGING PLATFORMS

#### LOGGING PLATFORMS

Log data from network appliances and hosts can be aggregated by a SIEM either by installing a local agent to collect and parse the log data or by using a forwarding system to transmit logs directly to the SIEM server. Also, organizations may not operate a SIEM, but still use a logging platform to aggregate log data in a central location.

**Syslog**  
**Syslog** (tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3164) provides an open format, protocol, and server software for logging event messages. It is used by a very wide range of host types. For example, syslog messages can be generated by Cisco routers and switches, as well as servers and workstations. It usually uses UDP port 514.

A syslog message comprises a PRI code, a header containing a timestamp and host name, and a message part. The PRI code is calculated from the facility and a severity level. The message part contains a tag showing the source process plus content. The format of the content is application dependent. It might use space- or comma-delimited fields or name/value pairs, such as JSON data.

> _RFC 5424 (tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5424) adjusts the structure slightly to split the tag into app name, process ID, and message ID fields, and to make them part of the header._

**Rsyslog and Syslog-ng**  
There have been two updates to the original syslog specification:

-   Rsyslog uses the same configuration file syntax, but can work over TCP and use a secure connection. Rsyslog can use more types of filter expressions in its configuration file to customize message handling.
  
-   Syslog-ng uses a different configuration file syntax, but can also use TCP/secure communications and more advanced options for message filtering.
  

**journalctl**  
In Linux, text-based log files of the sort managed by syslog can be viewed using commands such as `cat`, `tail`, and `head`. Most modern Linux distributions now use systemd to initialize the system and to start and manage background services. Rather than writing events to syslog-format text files, logs from processes managed by systemd are written to a binary-format file called journald. Events captured by journald can be forwarded to syslog. To view events in journald directly, you can use the `journalctl` command to print the entire journal log, or you can issue various options with the command to filter the log in a variety of ways, such as matching a service name or only printing messages matching the specified severity level.

**NXlog**  
**NXlog** (nxlog.co) is an open-source log normalization tool. One principal use for it is to collect Windows logs, which use an XML-based format, and normalize them to a syslog format.