# APPLICATION LOG FILES

#### APPLICATION LOG FILES

An application log file is simply one that is managed by the application rather than the OS. The application may use Event Viewer or syslog to write event data using a standard format, or it might write log files to its own application directories in whatever format the developer has selected.

**DNS Event Logs**  
A DNS server may log an event each time it handles a request to convert between a domain name and an IP address. DNS event logs can hold a variety of information that may supply useful security intelligence, such as:

-   The types of queries a host has made to DNS.
  
-   Hosts that are in communication with suspicious IP address ranges or domains.
  
-   Statistical anomalies such as spikes or consistently large numbers of DNS lookup failures, which may point to computers that are infected with malware, misconfigured, or running obsolete or faulty applications.
  

**Web/HTTP Access Logs**  
Web servers are typically configured to log HTTP traffic that encounters an error or traffic that matches some predefined rule set. Most web servers use the common log format (CLF) or W3C extended log file format to record the relevant information.

The status code of a response can reveal quite a bit about both the request and the server's behavior. Codes in the 400 range indicate client-based errors, while codes in the 500 range indicate server-based errors. For example, repeated 403 ("Forbidden") responses may indicate that the server is rejecting a client's attempts to access resources they are not authorized to. A 502 ("Bad Gateway") response could indicate that communications between the target server and its upstream server are being blocked, or that the upstream server is down.

In addition to status codes, some web server software also logs HTTP header information for both requests and responses. This can provide you with a better picture of the makeup of each request or response, such as cookie information and MIME types. Another header field of note is the User-Agent field, which identifies the type of application making the request. In most cases, this is the version of the browser that the client is using to access a site, as well as the client's operating system. However, this can be misleading, as even a browser like Microsoft Edge includes versions of Google Chrome and Safari in its User-Agent string. Therefore, the User-Agent field may not be a reliable indicator of the client's environment.

**VoIP and Call Managers and Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) Traffic**  
Many VoIP systems use the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) to identify endpoints and setup calls. The call content is transferred using a separate protocol, typically the Real Time Protocol (RTP). VoIP protocols are vulnerable to most of the same vulnerabilities and exploits as web communications. Both SIP and RTP should use the secure protocol forms, where endpoints are authenticated and communications protected by Transport Layer Security (TLS).

The call manager is a gateway that connects endpoints within the local network and over the Internet. The call manager is also likely to implement a media gateway to connect VoIP calls to cellphone and landline telephone networks. SIP produces similar logs to SMTP, typically in the common log format. A SIP log will identify the endpoints involved in a call request, plus the type of connection (voice only or voice with video, for instance), and status messaging. When handling requests, the call manager and any other intermediate servers add their IP address in a Via header, similar to per-hop SMTP headers. Inspecting the logs might reveal evidence of a man-in-the-middle attack where an unauthorized proxy is intercepting traffic. VoIP systems connected to telephone networks are also targets for toll fraud. The call manager's access log can be audited for suspicious connections.

**Dump Files**  
System memory contains volatile data. A system memory **dump** creates an image file that can be analyzed to identify the processes that are running, the contents of temporary file systems, registry data, network connections, cryptographic keys, and more. It can also be a means of accessing data that is encrypted when stored on a mass storage device.