# ENDPOINT CONFIGURATION CHANGES

#### ENDPOINT CONFIGURATION CHANGES

If endpoint security is breached, there are several classes of vector to consider for mitigation:

-   Social engineering—if the malware was executed by a user, use security education and awareness to reduce the risk of future attacks succeeding. Review permissions to see if the account could be operated with a lower privilege level.
  
-   Vulnerabilities—if the malware exploited a software fault, either install the patch or isolate the system until a patch can be developed.
  
-   Lack of security controls—if the attack could have been prevented by endpoint protection/A-V, host firewall, content filtering, DLP, or MDM, investigate the possibility of deploying them to the endpoint. If this is not practical, isolate the system from being exploited by the same vector.
  
-   Configuration drift—if the malware exploited an undocumented configuration change (shadow IT software or an unauthorized service/port, for instance), reapply the baseline configuration and investigate configuration management procedures to prevent this type of ad hoc change.
  
-   Weak configuration—if the configuration was correctly applied, but was exploited anyway, review the template to devise more secure settings. Make sure the template is applied to similar hosts.
  

**Application Allow Lists and Block Lists**  
One element of endpoint configuration is an execution control policy that defines applications that can or cannot be run.  

-   An allow list (or approved list) denies execution unless the process is explicitly authorized.
  
-   A block list (or deny list) generally allows execution, but explicitly prohibits listed processes.
  

You will need to update the contents of allow lists and block lists in response to incidents and as a result of ongoing threat hunting and monitoring. Threat hunting may also provoke a strategic change. For example, if you rely principally on explicit denies, but your systems are subject to numerous intrusions, you will have to consider adopting a "least privileges" model and using a deny-unless-listed approach. This sort of change has the potential to be highly disruptive however, so it must be preceded by a risk assessment and business impact analysis.

Execution control can also be tricky to configure effectively, with many opportunities for threat actors to evade the controls. Detailed analysis of the attack might show the need for changes to the existing mechanism, or the use of a more robust system.

**Quarantine**  
If mitigating techniques are not successful, or the results are uncertain, the endpoint will require careful management before being integrated back onto the network. If further evidence needs to be gathered, the best approach may be to **quarantine** or sandbox the endpoint or suspect process/file. This allows for analysis of the attack or tool and collection of evidence using digital forensic techniques.