# DNS POISONING

#### DNS POISONING

**DNS poisoning** is an attack that compromises the process by which clients query name servers to locate the IP address for a FQDN. There are several ways that a DNS poisoning attack can be perpetrated.

**Man in the Middle**  
If the threat actor has access to the same local network as the victim, the attacker can use ARP poisoning to impersonate a legitimate DNS server and respond to DNS queries from the victim with spoofed replies. This might be combined with a denial of service attack on the victim's legitimate DNS server. A rogue DHCP could be used to configure clients with the address of a rogue DNS resolver.

**DNS Client Cache Poisoning**  
Before DNS was developed in the 1980s, name resolution took place using a text file named HOSTS. Each name:IP address mapping was recorded in this file and system administrators had to download the latest copy and install it on each Internet client or server manually. Even though all name resolution now functions through DNS, the HOSTS file is still present and most operating systems check the file before using DNS. Its contents are loaded into a cache of known name:IP mappings and the client only contacts a DNS server if the name is not cached. Therefore, if an attacker is able to place a false name:IP address mapping in the HOSTS file and effectively poison the DNS cache, he or she will be able to redirect traffic. The HOSTS file requires administrator access to modify. In UNIX and Linux systems it is stored as /etc/hosts, while in Windows it is placed in %SystemRoot%\\System32\\Drivers\\etc\\hosts.

**DNS Server Cache Poisoning**  
DNS server cache poisoning aims to corrupt the records held by the DNS server itself. This can be accomplished by performing DoS against the server that holds the authorized records for the domain, and then spoofing replies to requests from other name servers. Another attack involves getting the victim name server to respond to a recursive query from the attacking host. A recursive query compels the DNS server to query the authoritative server for the answer on behalf of the client. The attacker's DNS, masquerading as the authoritative name server, responds with the answer to the query, but also includes a lot of false domain:IP mappings for other domains that the victim DNS accepts as genuine. The nslookup or dig tool can be used to query the name records and cached records held by a server to discover whether any false records have been inserted.