# TIME SYNCHRONIZATION

#### TIME SYNCHRONIZATION

Many applications on networks are time dependent and time critical. These include authentication and security mechanisms, scheduling applications, and backup software. The Network Time Protocol (NTP) provides a transport over which to synchronize these time dependent applications. NTP works over UDP on port 123.

Top-level NTP servers (stratum 1) obtain the Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) from a highly accurate clock source, such as an atomic clock. Lower tier servers then obtain the UTC from multiple stratum 1 servers and sample the results to obtain an authoritative time. Most organizations will use a stratum 2 server to obtain the time for use on the LAN. Servers at lower tiers may then perform the same sort of sampling operation, adjust for the delay involved in propagating the signal, and provide the time to clients. Clients themselves usually obtain the time using a modified form of the protocol (Simple NTP).

NTP has historically lacked any sort of security mechanism, but there are moves to create a security extension for the protocol called Network Time Security (blog.cloudflare.com/secure-time).

#### SIMPLE NETWORK MANAGEMENT PROTOCOL SECURITY

The **Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP**) is a widely used framework for management and monitoring. SNMP consists of an SNMP monitor and agents.

-   The agent is a process (software or firmware) running on a switch, router, server, or other SNMP-compatible network device.
  
-   This agent maintains a database called a management information base (MIB) that holds statistics relating to the activity of the device (for example, the number of frames per second handled by a switch). The agent is also capable of initiating a trap operation where it informs the management system of a notable event (port failure, for instance). The threshold for triggering traps can be set for each value. Device queries take place over port 161 (UDP); traps are communicated over port 162 (also UDP).
  
-   The SNMP monitor (a software program) provides a location from which network activity can be overseen. It monitors all agents by polling them at regular intervals for information from their MIBs and displays the information for review. It also displays any trap operations as alerts for the network administrator to assess and act upon as necessary.
  

If SNMP is not used, you should remember to change the default configuration password and disable it on any SNMP-capable devices that you add to the network. If you are running SNMP v1 or v2c, keep to the following guidelines:

-   SNMP community names are sent in plaintext and so should not be transmitted over the network if there is any risk that they could be intercepted.
  
-   Use difficult to guess community names; never leave the community name blank or set to the default.
  
-   Use Access Control Lists to restrict management operations to known hosts (that is, restrict to one or two host IP addresses).
  
-   SNMP v3 supports encryption and strong user-based authentication. Instead of community names, the agent is configured with a list of usernames and access permissions. When authentication is required, the SNMP message is signed with a hash of the user's passphrase. The agent can verify the signature and authenticate the user using its own record of the passphrase.