# API CONSIDERATIONS

#### API CONSIDERATIONS

HTTP is now used less to serve static web pages, and more to create web applications, often as part of a cloud product. An enterprise might use both public web applications over the Internet and private ones. The primary means of configuring and managing a web application is via its **application programming interface (API)**. For example, an application might allow a user account to be created via a URL:

```Markdown
https://example.foo/api/users?api_key=123456
``` 

The developer uses the POST method to submit data to the URL with the required parameters coded into the request body, often in JavaScript Object Notation (JSON).

```Json
POST /api/users HTTP/1.1
Content-Type: application/json
{
   "user": {
   "name": "James",
   "email": "jpengelly@comptia.org"
 }
}
``` 

Use of these APIs is authorized via a token or secret key. Effective management of these API secrets is a key consideration in modern networks, as they have been widely used to perpetrate various breaches and data thefts. For example, putting the key in the URL carries a severe risk of exposure. APIs can use more secure authentication and authorization methods, such as SAML and OAuth, but these still come with secrets management requirements. Another API consideration is that usage should be monitored to ensure only authorized endpoints are making transactions.

#### SUBSCRIPTION SERVICES

Employees may require access to all kinds of subscription services. Some examples include:

-   Market and financial intelligence and information.
  
-   Security threat intelligence and information.
  
-   Reference and training materials in various formats (ebook and video, for instance).
  
-   Software applications and cloud services paid for by subscription rather than permanent licenses.
  

Most of this sort of content will be delivered by a secure web site or cloud application. It may be necessary to provision authentication mechanisms for enterprise single sign-on (SSO) access to the services.

Another use of subscriptions is a web feed, where updated articles or news items are pushed to the client or browser. Web feeds are based on either the Really Simple Syndication (RSS) or Atom formats, both of which use XML to mark up each document supplied by the feed. It is possible that such feeds may be vulnerable to **XML injection** style attacks, allowing an attacker to show malicious links or even interact with the file system (https://mikeknoop.com/lxml-xxe-exploit).

> _Subscription services may also describe the outsourcing of network and security components and procedures. There may also be subscription use of enterprise cloud applications, which may be mediated by an access broker._