# SECURE/MULTIPURPOSE INTERNET MAIL EXTENSIONS

#### SECURE/MULTIPURPOSE INTERNET MAIL EXTENSIONS

Connection security goes a long way toward preventing the compromise of email accounts and the spoofing of email, but end-to-end encryption cannot usually be guaranteed. Consequently, there is still a need for authentication and confidentiality to be applied on a per-message basis. One means of doing this is called **Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (S/MIME)**. To use S/MIME, the user is issued a digital certificate containing his or her public key, signed by a CA to establish its validity. The public key is a pair with a private key kept secret by the user. To establish the exchange of secure emails, both users must be using S/MIME and exchange certificates:

1.  Alice sends Bob her digital certificate, containing her public key and validated digital ID (an email address). She signs this message using her private key.
2.  Bob uses the public key in the certificate to decode her signature and the signature of the CA (or chain of CAs) validating her digital certificate and digital ID and decides that he can trust Alice and her email address.
3.  He responds with his digital certificate and public key and Alice, following the same process, decides to trust Bob.
4.  Both Alice and Bob now have one another's certificates in their trusted certificate stores.
5.  When Alice wants to send Bob a confidential message, she makes a hash of the message and signs the hash using her private key. She then encrypts the message, hash, and her public key using Bob's public key and sends a message to Bob with this data as an S/MIME attachment.
6.  Bob receives the message and decrypts the attachment using his private key. He validates the signature and the integrity of the message by decrypting it with Alice's public key and comparing her hash value with one he makes himself.

