# LAYER 2 TUNNELING PROTOCOL AND IKE V2

#### LAYER 2 TUNNELING PROTOCOL AND IKE V2

This first version of IKE is optimized to ensure the mutual authentication of two peer hosts, such as in a site-to-site VPN. On its own, it does not provide a simple means for a client user account to authenticate to a remote network directory. Consequently, for remote access VPNs, a combination of IPSec with the **Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol (L2TP)** VPN protocol is often used.

**Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol/IPSec VPN**  
A L2TP/IPSec VPN would typically operate as follows:

1.  The client and VPN gateway set up a secure IPSec channel over the Internet, using either a pre-shared key or certificates for IKE.
  
3.  The VPN gateway uses L2TP to set up a tunnel to exchange local network data encapsulated as Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) frames. This double encapsulation of traffic is the main drawback, as it adds overhead.
  
5.  The user authenticates over the PPP session using EAP or CHAP.
  

**IKE v2**  
The drawbacks of the original version of IKE were addressed by an updated protocol. IKE v2 has some additional features that have made the protocol popular for use as a standalone remote access VPN solution. The main changes are:

-   Support for EAP authentication methods, allowing, for example, user authentication against a RADIUS server.
  
-   Simplified connection set up—IKE v2 specifies a single 4-message setup mode, reducing bandwidth without compromising security.
  
-   Reliability—IKE v2 allows NAT traversal and MOBIKE multihoming. Multihoming means that a client such as a smartphone with multiple interfaces (such as Wi-Fi and cellular) can keep the IPSec connection alive when switching between them.
  
Compared to L2TP/IPSec, using IKE v2 is more efficient. This solution is becoming much better supported, with native support in Windows 10, for instance.