# REMOTE DESKTOP

#### REMOTE DESKTOP

A remote access VPN joins the user's PC or smartphone to the local network, via the secure tunnel. Another model for remote networking involves connecting to a host within the local network over a remote administration protocol. A protocol such as Secure Shell (SSH) traditionally provides terminal access, and there are many tools that can connect to a graphical desktop. A GUI remote administration tool sends screen and audio data from the remote host to the client and transfers mouse and keyboard input from the client to the remote host.

Microsoft's **Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP)** can be used to access a physical machine on a one-to-one basis. Alternatively, the site can operate a remote desktop gateway that facilitates access to virtual desktops or individual apps running on the network servers (docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/remote/remote-desktop-services/welcome-to-rds). There are several popular alternatives to Remote Desktop. Most support remote access to platforms other than Windows (macOS and iOS, Linux, Chrome OS, and Android for instance). Examples include TeamViewer (teamviewer.com/en) and **Virtual Network Computing (VNC)**, which is implemented by several different providers (notably realvnc.com/en).

Traditionally, these remote desktop products require a client app. The canvas element introduced in HTML5 allows a browser to draw and update a desktop with relatively little lag. It can also handle audio. This is referred to as an **HTML5 VPN** or as a clientless remote desktop gateway (guacamole.apache.org). This solution also uses a protocol called WebSockets, which enables bidirectional messages to be sent between the server and client without requiring the overhead of separate HTTP requests.