# Implement Mobile Device Management

> **EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED**
> 
> _3.5 Given a scenario, implement secure mobile solutions_

As use of mobiles has permeated every type of organization, network management and security suites have developed to ensure that they are not exploited as unmanaged attack vectors. As a security professional, you will often have to configure these management suites, and assist users with the device onboarding process.

#### MOBILE DEVICE DEPLOYMENT MODELS

Mobile devices have replaced computers for many email and diary management tasks and are integral to accessing many other business processes and cloud-based applications. A mobile device **deployment model** describes the way employees are provided with mobile devices and applications.

  
-   **Bring your own device (BYOD)**—the mobile device is owned by the employee. The mobile will have to meet whatever profile is required by the company (in terms of OS version and functionality) and the employee will have to agree on the installation of corporate apps and to some level of oversight and auditing. This model is usually the most popular with employees but poses the most difficulties for security and network managers.
  
-   **Corporate owned, business only (COBO)**—the device is the property of the company and may only be used for company business.
  
-   **Corporate owned, personally-enabled (COPE)**—the device is chosen and supplied by the company and remains its property. The employee may use it to access personal email and social media accounts and for personal web browsing (subject to whatever acceptable use policies are in force).
  
-   **Choose your own device (CYOD)**—much the same as COPE but the employee is given a choice of device from a list.
  

Virtualization can provide an additional deployment model. Virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI) means provisioning an OS desktop to interchangeable hardware. The hardware only has to be capable of running a VDI client viewer, or have browser support for a clientless HTML5 solution. The instance is provided "as new" for each session and can be accessed remotely. The same technology can be accessed via a mobile device such as a smartphone or tablet. This removes some of the security concerns about BYOD as the corporate apps and data are segmented from the other apps on the device.