# CONTENT MANAGEMENT

#### CONTENT MANAGEMENT

**Containerization** allows the employer to manage and maintain the portion of the device that interfaces with the corporate network. An enterprise workspace with a defined selection of apps and a separate container is created. This container isolates corporate apps from the rest of the device. There may be a requirement for additional authentication to access the workspace.

The container can also enforce storage segmentation. With storage segmentation the container is associated with a directory on the persistent storage device that is not readable or writable by apps that are not in the container. Conversely, apps cannot write to areas outside the container, such as external media or using copy and paste to a non-container app. App network access might be restricted to a VPN tunneled through the organization's security system.

The enterprise is thereby able to maintain the security it needs, without having to enforce policies that affect personal use, apps, or data.

Containerization also assists content management and data loss prevention (DLP) systems. A content management system tags corporate or confidential data and prevents it from being shared or copied to unauthorized external media or channels, such as non-corporate email systems or cloud storage services.

#### ROOTING AND JAILBREAKING

Like Windows and Linux, the account used to install the OS and run kernel-level processes is not the one used by the device owner. Users who want to avoid the restrictions that some OS vendors, handset OEMs, and telecom providers (carriers) put on the devices must use some type of privilege escalation:

  
-   **Rooting**—this term is associated with Android devices. Some vendors provide authorized mechanisms for users to access the root account on their device. For some devices it is necessary to exploit a vulnerability or use custom firmware. Custom firmware is essentially a new Android OS image applied to the device. This can also be referred to as a custom ROM, after the term for the read only memory chips that used to hold firmware.
  
-   **Jailbreaking**—iOS is more restrictive than Android so the term "jailbreaking" became popular for exploits that enabled the user to obtain root privileges, sideload apps, change or add carriers, and customize the interface. iOS jailbreaking is accomplished by booting the device with a patched kernel. For most exploits, this can only be done when the device is attached to a computer when it boots (tethered jailbreak).
  
-   **Carrier unlocking**—for either iOS or Android, this means removing the restrictions that lock a device to a single carrier.
  

Rooting or jailbreaking mobile devices involves subverting the security measures on the device to gain administrative access to it. This also has the side effect of leaving many security measures permanently disabled. If the user has root permissions, then essentially any management agent software running on the device is compromised. If the user has applied a custom firmware image, they could have removed the protections that enforce segmentation. The device can no longer be assumed to run a trusted OS.

EMM/UEM has routines to detect a rooted or jailbroken device or custom firmware with no valid developer code signature and prevent access to an enterprise app, network, or workspace. Containerization and enterprise workspaces can use cryptography to protect the workspace in a way that is much harder to compromise than a local agent, even from a rooted/jailbroken device.