# INFRARED AND RFID CONNECTION METHODS

#### INFRARED AND RFID CONNECTION METHODS

Infrared signaling has been used for PAN in the past (IrDA), but the use of infrared in modern smartphones and **wearable technology** focuses on two other uses:

  
-   IR blaster—this allows the device to interact with an IR receiver and operate a device such as a TV or HVAC monitor as though it were the remote control handset.
  
-   IR sensor—these are used as proximity sensors (to detect when a smartphone is being held to the ear, for instance) and to measure health information (such as heart rate and blood oxygen levels).
  

**Radio Frequency ID (RFID)** is a means of encoding information into passive tags, which can be easily attached to devices, structures, clothing, or almost anything else. A passive tag can have a range from a few centimeters to a few meters. When a reader is within range of the tag, it produces an electromagnetic wave that powers up the tag and allows the reader to collect information from it or to change the values encoded in the tag. There are also battery-powered active tags that can be read at much greater distances (hundreds of meters).

One type of RFID attack is skimming, which is where an attacker uses a fraudulent RFID reader to read the signals from a contactless bank card. Any reader can access any data stored on any RFID tag, so sensitive information must be protected using cryptography. It is also possible (in theory) to design RFID tags to inject malicious code to try to exploit a vulnerability in a reader.