- # USB CONNECTION METHODS

#### USB CONNECTION METHODS

Android devices can be connected to a computer via the USB port. Apple devices require a lightning-to-USB converter cable. Once attached the computer can access the device's hard drive, sync or backup apps, and upgrade the firmware.

Some Android USB ports support USB **On The Go (OTG)** and there are adapters for iOS devices. USB OTG allows a port to function either as a host or as a device. For example, a port on a smartphone might operate as a device when connected to a PC, but as a host when connected to a keyboard or external hard drive. The extra pin communicates which mode the port is in.

There are various ways in which USB OTG could be abused. Media connected to the smartphone could host malware. The malware might not be able to affect the smartphone itself but could be spread between host computers or networks via the device. It is also possible that a charging plug could act as a Trojan and try to install apps (referred to as juice-jacking), though modern versions of both iOS and Android now require authorization before the device will accept the connection.

#### SMS/MMS/RCS AND PUSH NOTIFICATIONS

The **Short Message Service (SMS)** and **Multimedia Message Service (MMS)** are operated by the cellular network providers. They allow transmission of text messages and binary files. Vulnerabilities in SMS and the SS7 signaling protocol that underpins it have cast doubt on the security of 2-step verification mechanisms (kaspersky.com/blog/ss7-hacked/25529).

**Rich Communication Services (RCS)** is designed as a platform-independent advanced messaging app, with a similar feature set to proprietary apps like WhatsApp and iMesssage. These features include support for video calling, larger binary attachments, group messaging/calling, and read receipts. RCS is supported by carriers via Universal Profile for Advanced Messaging (gsma.com/futurenetworks/digest/universal-profile-version-2-0-advanced-rcs-messaging). The main drawbacks of RCS are that carrier support is patchy (messages fallback to SMS if RCS is not supported) and there is no end-to-end encryption, at the time of writing (theverge.com/2020/5/27/21271186/google-rcs-t-mobile-encryption-ccmi-universal-profile).

Vulnerabilities in processing attachments and rich formatting have resulted in DoS attacks against certain handsets in the past, so it is important to keep devices patched against known threats.

**Push notifications** are store services (such as Apple Push Notification Service and Google Cloud to Device Messaging) that an app or website can use to display an alert on a mobile device. Users can choose to disable notifications for an app, but otherwise the app developer can target notifications to some or all users with that app installed. Developers need to take care to properly secure the account and services used to send push notifications. There have been examples in the past of these accounts being hacked and used to send fake communications.