# FIRMWARE OVER-THE-AIR UPDATES

#### FIRMWARE OVER-THE-AIR UPDATES

A baseband update modifies the firmware of the radio modem used for cellular, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, NFC, and GPS connectivity. The radio firmware in a mobile device contains an operating system that is separate from the end-user operating system (for example, Android or iOS). The modem uses its own baseband processor and memory, which boots a real-time operating system (RTOS). An RTOS is often used for time-sensitive embedded controllers, of the sort required for the modulation and frequency shifts that underpin radio-based connectivity.

The procedures for establishing radio connections are complex and require strict compliance with regulatory certification schemes, so incorporating these functions in the main OS would make it far harder to bring OS updates to market. Unfortunately, baseband operating systems have been associated with several vulnerabilities over the years, so it is imperative to ensure that updates are applied promptly. These updates are usually pushed to the handset by the device vendor, often as part of OS upgrades. The updates can be delivered wirelessly, either through a Wi-Fi network or the data connection, referred to as **over-the-air (OTA)**. A handset that has been jailbroken or rooted might be able to be configured to prevent baseband updates or apply a particular version manually, but in the general course of things, there is little reason to do so.

There are various ways of exploiting vulnerabilities in the way these updates work. A well-resourced attacker can create an "evil base station" using a Stingray/International Mobile Subscriber Identity (IMSI) catcher. This will allow the attacker to identify the location of cell devices operating in the area. In some circumstances it might be possible to launch a man-in-the-middle attack and abuse the firmware update process to compromise the phone.

#### MICROWAVE RADIO CONNECTION METHODS

Cellular networks are microwave radio networks provisioned for multiple subscribers. Microwave radio is also used as a backhaul link from a cell tower to the service provider's network. These links are important to 5G, where many relays are required and provisioning fiber optic cabled backhaul can be difficult. Private microwave links are also used between sites. A microwave link can be provisioned in two modes:

  
-   **Point-to-point (P2P)** microwave uses high gain antennas to link two sites. High gain means that the antenna is highly directional. Each antenna is pointed directly at the other. In terms of security, this makes it difficult to eavesdrop on the signal, as an intercepting antenna would have to be positioned within the direct path. The satellite modems or routers are also normally paired to one another and can use over-the-air encryption to further mitigate against snooping attacks.
  
-   **Point-to-multipoint (P2M)** microwave uses smaller sectoral antennas, each covering a separate quadrant. Where P2P is between two sites, P2M links multiple sites or subscriber nodes to a single hub. This can be more cost-efficient in high density urban areas and requires less radio spectrum. Each subscriber node is distinguished by multiplexing. Because of the higher risk of signal interception compared to P2P, it is crucial that links be protected by over-the-air encryption.
  

Multipoint can be used in other contexts. For example, Bluetooth supports a multipoint mode. This can be used to connect a headset to multiple sources (a PC and a smartphone, for instance) simultaneously.