# Explain the Importance of Physical Site Security Controls

> **EXAM OBJECTIVES COVERED**
> 
> _1.2 Given a scenario, analyze potential indicators to determine the type of attack  
> 2.7 Explain the importance of physical security controls_

If an attacker can gain physical access to your premises, there may be lots of opportunities to install rogue devices, vandalize or disrupt systems, or observe confidential information. Consequently, as a security professional, you should be able to explain the importance of installing access and monitoring controls that protect sites against physical intrusion.

#### PHYSICAL SECURITY CONTROLS

**Physical access controls** are security measures that restrict and monitor access to specific physical areas or assets. They can control access to a building, to equipment, or to specific areas, such as server rooms, finance or legal areas, data centers, network cable runs, or any other area that has hardware or information that is considered to have important value and sensitivity. Determining where to use physical access controls requires a cost–benefit analysis and must consider any regulations or other compliance requirements for the specific types of data that are being safeguarded.

Physical access controls depend on the same access control fundamentals as network or operating system security:

-   Authentication—create access lists and identification mechanisms to allow approved persons through the barriers.
-   Authorization—create barriers around a resource so that access can be controlled through defined entry and exit points.
-   Accounting—keep a record of when entry/exit points are used and detect security breaches.

Physical security can be thought of in terms of zones. Each zone should be separated by its own barrier(s). Entry and exit points through the barriers need to be controlled by one or more security mechanisms. Progression through each zone should be progressively more restricted.