# SITE LAYOUT, FENCING, AND LIGHTING

#### SITE LAYOUT, FENCING, AND LIGHTING

In existing premises, there will not be much scope to influence site layout. However, given constraints of cost and existing infrastructure, try to plan the site using the following principles:

-   Locate secure zones, such as equipment rooms, as deep within the building as possible, avoiding external walls, doors, and windows.

-   Use a demilitarized zone (DMZ) design for the physical space. Position public access areas so that guests do not pass near secure zones. Security mechanisms in public areas should be highly visible, to increase deterrence.
-   Use signage and warnings to enforce the idea that security is tightly controlled. Beyond basic no trespassing signs, some homes and offices also display signs from the security companies whose services they are currently using. These may convince intruders to stay away.
-   Conversely, entry points to secure zones should be discreet. Do not allow an intruder the opportunity to inspect security mechanisms protecting such zones (or even to know where they are). Use **industrial camouflage** to make buildings and gateways protecting high-value assets unobtrusive, or create high-visibility decoy areas to draw out potential threat actors.
-   Try to minimize traffic having to pass between zones. The flow of people should be "in and out" rather than "across and between."
-   Give high-traffic public areas high visibility, so that covert use of gateways, network access ports, and computer equipment is hindered, and surveillance is simplified.
-   In secure zones, do not position display screens or input devices facing toward pathways or windows. Alternatively, use one-way glass so that no one can look in through windows.

**_Barricades and Entry/Exit Points_**  

A barricade is something that prevents access. As with any security system, no barricade is completely effective; a wall may be climbed or a lock may be picked, for instance. The purpose of barricades is to channel people through defined entry and exit points. Each entry point should have an authentication mechanism so that only authorized persons are allowed through. Effective surveillance mechanisms ensure that attempts to penetrate a barricade by other means are detected.

> _Sites where there is a risk of a terrorist attack will use barricades such as bollards and security posts to prevent vehicles from approaching closely to a building at high speed._

**_Fencing_**  
The exterior of a building may be protected by fencing. Security fencing needs to be transparent (so that guards can see any attempt to penetrate it), robust (so that it is difficult to cut), and secure against climbing (which is generally achieved by making it tall and possibly by using razor wire). Fencing is generally effective, but the drawback is that it gives a building an intimidating appearance. Buildings that are used by companies to welcome customers or the public may use more discreet security methods.

**_Lighting_**  

Security lighting is enormously important in contributing to the perception that a building is safe and secure at night. Well-designed lighting helps to make people feel safe, especially in public areas or enclosed spaces, such as parking garages. Security lighting also acts as a deterrent by making intrusion more difficult and surveillance (whether by camera or guard) easier. The lighting design needs to account for overall light levels, the lighting of particular surfaces or areas (allowing cameras to perform facial recognition, for instance), and avoiding areas of shadow and glare.