# PHYSICAL ATTACKS AGAINST SMART CARDS AND USB

#### PHYSICAL ATTACKS AGAINST SMART CARDS AND USB

Some types of smart cards used as passkeys for electronic locks can be vulnerable to cloning and skimming attacks:

-   Card cloning—this refers to making one or more copies of an existing card. A lost or stolen card with no cryptographic protections can be physically duplicated. Card loss should be reported immediately so that it can be revoked and a new one issued. If there were a successful attack, it might be indicated by use of a card in a suspicious location or time of day.

-   Skimming—this refers to using a counterfeit card reader to capture card details, which are then used to program a duplicate. Some types of proximity cards can quite easily be made to transmit the credential to a portable RFID reader that a threat actor could conceal on his or her person. Skimmers installed on public readers, such as ATM machines, can be difficult to spot.

These attacks can generally only target "dumb" smart cards that transfer tokens rather than perform cryptoprocessing. Bank-issued smart cards, referred to as EMV (Electron, MasterCard, Visa), can also be vulnerable through the magnetic strip, which is retained for compatibility.

> _When evaluating risks from card cloning and skimming, you need to realize that there are many types of "smart card." For example, old MIFARE Classic cards used as public transit payment cards are easily cloned because they use a weak cryptographic implementation. Building entry systems using contactless cards with no cryptoprocessing are also vulnerable (youtube.com/watch?v=cxxnuofREcM). Cloning of MIFARE EV or EMV smart cards that implement a TPM-like cryptoprocessor is not thought to be possible._

Malicious USB charging cables and plugs are also a widespread problem. As with card skimming, a device may be placed over a public charging port at airports and other transit locations. A **USB data blocker** can provide mitigation against these juice-jacking attacks by preventing any sort of data transfer when the smartphone or laptop is connected to a charge point (zdnet.com/article/this-cheap-gadget-can-stop-your-smartphone-or-tablet-being-hacked-at-an-airport-hotel-or-cafe).