# ALARM SYSTEMS AND SENSORS

#### ALARM SYSTEMS AND SENSORS

When designing premises security, you must consider the security of entry points that could be misused, such as emergency exits, windows, hatches, grilles, and so on. These may be fitted with bars, locks, or alarms to prevent intrusion. Also consider pathways above and below, such as false ceilings and ducting. There are five main types of alarm:

-   Circuit—a circuit-based alarm sounds when the circuit is opened or closed, depending on the type of alarm. This could be caused by a door or window opening or by a fence being cut. A closed-circuit alarm is more secure because an open circuit alarm can be defeated by cutting the circuit.
-   Motion detection—a motion-based alarm is linked to a detector triggered by any movement within an area (defined by the sensitivity and range of the detector), such as a room. The **sensors** in these detectors are either microwave radio reflection (similar to radar) or passive infrared (PIR), which detect moving heat sources.
-   Noise detection—an alarm triggered by sounds picked up by a microphone. Modern AI-backed analysis and identification of specific types of sound can render this type of system much less prone to false positives.
-   Proximity—radio frequency ID (RFID) tags and readers can be used to track the movement of tagged objects within an area. This can form the basis of an alarm system to detect whether someone is trying to remove equipment.
-   Duress—this type of alarm is triggered manually by staff if they come under threat. There are many ways of implementing this type of alarm, including wireless pendants, concealed sensors or triggers, and DECT handsets or smartphones. Some electronic entry locks can also be programmed with a duress code that is different from the ordinary access code. This will open the gateway but also alert security personnel that the lock has been operated under duress.

Circuit-based alarms are typically suited for use at the perimeter and on windows and doors. These may register when a gateway is opened without using the lock mechanism properly or when a gateway is held open for longer than a defined period. Motion detectors are useful for controlling access to spaces that are not normally used. Duress alarms are useful for exposed staff in public areas. An alarm might simply sound an alert or it may be linked to a monitoring system. Many alarms are linked directly to local law enforcement or to third-party security companies. A silent alarm alerts security personnel rather than sounding an audible alarm.