# RECEPTION PERSONNEL AND ID BADGES

#### RECEPTION PERSONNEL AND ID BADGES

One of the most important parts of surveillance is the challenge policy. This sets out what type of response is appropriate in given situations and helps to defeat social engineering attacks. This must be communicated to and understood by the staff. Challenges represent a whole range of different contact situations. For example:

-   Challenging visitors who do not have ID badges or are moving about unaccompanied.

-   Insisting that proper authentication is completed at gateways, even if this means inconveniencing staff members (no matter their seniority).
-   Intruders and/or security guards may be armed. The safety of staff and compliance with local laws has to be balanced against the imperative to protect the company's other resources.

It is much easier for employees to use secure behavior in these situations if they know that their actions are conforming to a standard of behavior that has been agreed upon and is expected of them.

**_Reception Personnel and Visitor Logs_**  
An access list held at the reception area for each secure gateway records who is allowed to enter. An electronic lock may be able to log access attempts or a reception staff can manually log movement. At the lowest end, a sign-in and sign-out sheet can be used to record authorized access. Visitor logging requirements will vary depending on the organization, but should include at least the name and company being represented, date, time of entry and departure, reason for visiting, and contact within the organization.

**_Two-Person Integrity/Control_**  
Reception areas for high-security zones might be staffed by at least two people at all times, providing integrity for entry control and reducing the risk of insider threat.

**_ID Badges_**  
A photographic ID badge showing name and (perhaps) access details is one of the cornerstones of building security. Anyone moving through secure areas of a building should be wearing an ID badge; anyone without an ID badge should be challenged. Color-coding could be used to make it obvious to which zones a badge is granted access.