# HEATING, VENTILATION, AIR CONDITIONING

#### HEATING, VENTILATION, AIR CONDITIONING

Environmental controls mitigate the loss of availability through mechanical issues with equipment, such as overheating. Building control systems maintain an optimum working environment for different parts of the building. The acronym **HVAC (Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning)** is often used to describe these services. An HVAC uses temperature sensors and moisture detection sensors (to measure humidity).

> _Use a portable monitor to verify that the HVAC's temperature and humidity sensors are returning the correct readings._

For computer rooms and data centers, a thermostatically controlled environment is usually kept at a temperature of around 20-22째C (68-70째F) and relative humidity of 50%. The heat generated by equipment per hour is measured in British Thermal Units (BTU) or kilowatts (KW). 1 KW is 3412 BTU. To calculate the cooling requirement for an air conditioning system, multiply the wattage of all equipment in the room (including lighting) by 3.41 to get the BTU/hour. If the server room is occupied (unlikely in most cases), add 400 BTU/person. The air conditioner's BTU-rating must exceed this total value.

> _Some data centers (notably those operated by Google) are allowing higher temperatures (up to around 26째C/80째F). This can achieve significant energy cost savings and modern electronics is proving reliable at this temperature._

The positive air pressure created by the HVAC system also forces contaminants such as dust out of the facility. Filters on HVAC systems collect the dust and must be changed regularly. When using an air conditioning system, ensure that it is inspected and maintained periodically. Systems may be fitted with alarms to alert staff to problems. Mission critical systems may require a backup air conditioning system.

> _The server room should not be used as storage space. Do not leave boxes or unused equipment in it. Also, do not install unnecessary devices that generate a lot of heat and dust, such as printers._