# SECURE DATA DESTRUCTION

#### SECURE DATA DESTRUCTION

Physical security controls also need to take account of the disposal phase of the data life cycle. Media **sanitization** and remnant removal refer to erasing data from hard drives, flash drives/SSDs, tape media, CD and DVD ROMs before they are disposed of or put to a different use. Paper documents must also be disposed of securely. **Data remnants** can be dealt with either by destroying the media or by purging it (removing the confidential information but leaving the media intact for reuse).

One approach to sanitization is to destroy the media, rendering it unusable. There are several physical destruction options:

-   Burning—incineration is an effective method for all media types, so long as it is performed in a furnace designed for media sanitization. Municipal incinerators may leave remnants.

  

-   Shredding and pulping—most media can be shredded. For paper documents, shredders are rated by the size of the remnants they reduce a sheet to. Level 1 is 12mm strips, while Level 6 is 0.8x4mm particles. Pulping the shredded remains with water or incinerating them provides an extra measure of protection. Some office shredders can destroy optical media too. Industrial shredders can destroy hard drives and flash drives.
  
-   Pulverizing—hitting a hard drive with a hammer can leave a surprising amount of recoverable data, so this type of destruction should be performed with industrial machinery.
  
-   **Degaussing**— exposing a hard disk to a powerful electromagnet disrupts the magnetic pattern that stores the data on the disk surface. Note that SSDs, flash media, and optical media cannot be degaussed, only hard disk drives.
  

Due to the cost of facilities, physical destruction is likely to be contracted to a third party. It is important to use a reputable service provider and to obtain a detailed inventory of how each media item was sanitized and certificates of destruction.