# ISO and Cloud Frameworks

#### ISO AND CLOUD FRAMEWORKS

**International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 27K**  
The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) has produced a cybersecurity framework in conjunction with the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC). The framework was established in 2005 and revised in 2013. Unlike the NIST framework, the ISO 27001 Information Security Management standard must be purchased ([iso.org/standard/54534.html](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/iso-and-cloud-frameworks)). **ISO 27001** is part of an overall 27000 series of information security standards, also known as 27K. Of these, 27002 classifies security controls, 27017 and 27018 reference cloud security, and 27701 focuses on personal data and privacy.

**ISO 31K**  
Where ISO 21K is a cybersecurity framework, **ISO 31K** ([iso.org/iso-31000-risk-management.html](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/iso-and-cloud-frameworks)) is an overall framework for enterprise risk management (ERM). ERM considers risks and opportunities beyond cybersecurity by including financial, customer service, competition, and legal liability factors. ISO 31K establishes best practices for performing risk assessments.

**Cloud Security Alliance**  
The not-for-profit organization **Cloud Security Alliance (CSA)** produces various resources to assist cloud service providers (CSP) in setting up and delivering secure cloud platforms. These resources can also be useful for cloud consumers in evaluating and selecting cloud services.

-   Security Guidance ([cloudsecurityalliance.org/research/guidance](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/iso-and-cloud-frameworks))—a best practice summary analyzing the unique challenges of cloud environments and how on-premises controls can be adapted to them.
-   Enterprise reference architecture ([ea.cloudsecurityalliance.org](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/iso-and-cloud-frameworks))—best practice methodology and tools for CSPs to use in architecting cloud solutions. The solutions are divided across a number of domains, such as risk management and infrastructure, application, and presentation services.
-   Cloud controls matrix ([cloudsecurityalliance.org/research/working-groups/cloud-controls-matrix](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/iso-and-cloud-frameworks))—lists specific controls and assessment guidelines that should be implemented by CSPs. For cloud consumers, the matrix acts as a starting point for cloud contracts and agreements as it provides a baseline level of security competency that the CSP should meet.

**Statements on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE) Service Organization Control (SOC)**  
The **Statements on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE)** are audit specifications developed by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). These audits are designed to assure consumers that service providers—notably cloud providers, but including any type of hosted or third-party service—meet professional standards ([aicpa.org/interestareas/frc/assuranceadvisoryservices/serviceorganization-smanagement.html](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/iso-and-cloud-frameworks)). Within SSAE No. 18 (the current specification), there are several levels of reporting:

-   Service Organization Control (SOC2)—evaluates the internal controls implemented by the service provider to ensure compliance with Trust Services Criteria (TSC) when storing and processing customer data. TSC refers to security, confidentiality, integrity, availability, and privacy properties. An SOC2 Type I report assesses the system design, while a Type II report assesses the ongoing effectiveness of the security architecture over a period of 6-12 months. SOC2 reports are highly detailed and designed to be restricted. They should only be shared with the auditor and regulators, and with important partners under non-disclosure agreement (NDA) terms.
-   SOC3—a less detailed report certifying compliance with SOC2. SOC3 reports can be freely distributed.