# Benchmarks and Secure Configuration Guides

#### BENCHMARKS AND SECURE CONFIGURATION GUIDES

Although a framework gives a "high-level" view of how to plan IT services, it does not generally provide detailed implementation guidance. At a system level, the deployment of servers and applications is covered by benchmarks and secure configuration guides.

**Center for Internet Security (CIS)** The **Center for Internet Security** ([cisecurity.org](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/benchmarks-and-secure-configuration-guides)) is a not-for-profit organization (founded partly by The SANS Institute). It publishes the well-known "The 20 CIS Controls." The CIS-RAM (Risk Assessment Method) can be used to perform an overall evaluation of security posture ([learn.cisecurity.org/cis-ram](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/benchmarks-and-secure-configuration-guides)).

CIS also produces **benchmarks** for different aspects of cybersecurity. For example, there are benchmarks for compliance with IT frameworks and compliance programs, such as **PCI DSS**, NIST 800-53, SOX, and ISO 27000. There are also product-focused benchmarks, such as for Windows Desktop, Windows Server, macOS, Linux, Cisco, web browsers, web servers, database and email servers, and VMware ESXi. The CIS-CAT (Configuration Access Tool) can be used with automated vulnerability scanners to test compliance against these benchmarks ([cisecurity.org/cybersecurity-tools/cis-cat-pro/cis-cat-faq](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/benchmarks-and-secure-configuration-guides)).

**OS/Network Appliance Platform/Vendor-specific Guides**  
Operating system (OS) best practice configuration lists the settings and controls that should be applied for a computing platform to work in a defined roles, such as client workstation, authentication server, network switch/router/firewall, web/application server, and so on.

Most vendors will provide guides, templates, and tools for configuring and validating the deployment of network appliances, operating systems, web servers, and application/database servers. The security configurations for each of these devices will vary not only by vendor but by device and version as well. The vendor's support portal will host the configuration guides (along with setup/install guides and software downloads and updates) or they can be easily located using a web search engine.

There is also detailed guidance available from several organizations to cover both vendor-neutral deployments and to provide third-party assessment and advice on deploying vendor products. Apart from the CIS controls, some notable sources include:

-   Department of Defense Cyber Exchange provides Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs) with hardening guidelines for a variety of software and hardware solutions ([public.cyber.mil](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/benchmarks-and-secure-configuration-guides)).
-   National Checklist Program (NCP) by NIST provides checklists and benchmarks for a variety of operating systems and applications ([nvd.nist.gov/ncp/repository](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/benchmarks-and-secure-configuration-guides)).

**Application Servers**  
Most application architectures use a client/server model. This means that part of the application is a client software program, installed and run on separate hardware to the server application code. The client interacts with the server over a network. Attacks can therefore be directed at the local client code, at the server application, or at the network channel between them. As well as coding issues, the applications need to take account of platform issues. The client application might be running in a computing host alongside other, potentially malicious, software. Code that runs on the client should not be trusted. The server-side code should implement routines to verify that input conforms to what is expected.

**Web Server Applications**  
A web application is a particular type of client/server architecture. A web application leverages existing technologies to simplify development. The application uses a generic client (a web browser), and standard network protocols and servers (HTTP/HTTPS). The specific features of the application are developed using code running on the clients and servers. Web applications are also likely to use a multi-tier architecture, where the server part is split between application logic and data storage and retrieval. Modern web applications may use even more distributed architectures, such as microservices and serverless.

The **Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP)** is a not-for-profit, online community that publishes several secure application development resources, such as the Top 10 list of the most critical application security risks ([owasp.org/www-project-top-ten](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/benchmarks-and-secure-configuration-guides)). OWASP has also developed resources, such as the Zed Attack Proxy and Juice Shop (a deliberately unsecure web application), to help investigate and understand penetration testing and application security issues.