# Regulations, Standards, and Legislation

#### REGULATIONS, STANDARDS, AND LEGISLATION

The key frameworks, benchmarks, and configuration guides may be used to demonstrate compliance with a country's legal/regulatory requirements or with industry-specific regulations. Due diligence is a legal term meaning that responsible persons have not been negligent in discharging their duties. Negligence may create criminal and civil liabilities. Many countries have enacted legislation that criminalizes negligence in information management. In the US, for example, the **Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX)** mandates the implementation of risk assessments, internal controls, and audit procedures. The Computer Security Act (1987) requires federal agencies to develop security policies for computer systems that process confidential information. In 2002, the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) was introduced to govern the security of data processed by federal government agencies.

> _Some regulations have specific cybersecurity control requirements; others simply mandate "best practice," as represented by a particular industry or international framework. It may be necessary to perform mapping between different industry frameworks, such as NIST and ISO 27K, if a regulator specifies the use of one but not another. Conversely, the use of frameworks may not be mandated as such, but auditors are likely to expect them to be in place as a demonstration of a strong and competent security program._

**Personal Data and the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)**  
Where some types of legislation address cybersecurity due diligence, others focus in whole or in part on information security as it affects privacy or personal data. Privacy is a distinct concept from security. Privacy requires that collection and processing of personal information be both secure and fair. Fairness and the right to privacy, as enacted by regulations such as the European Union's **General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)**, means that personal data cannot be collected, processed, or retained without the individual's informed consent. Informed consent means that the data must be collected and processed only for the stated purpose, and that purpose must be clearly described to the user in plain language, not legalese. GDPR ([ico.org.uk/for-organisations/guide-to-data-protection/guide-to-the-general-data-protection-regulation-gdpr](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/regulations-standards-and-legislation)) gives data subjects rights to withdraw consent, and to inspect, amend, or erase data held about them.

**National, Territory, or State Laws**  
Compliance issues are complicated by the fact that laws derive from different sources. For example, the GDPR does not apply to American data subjects, but it does apply to American companies that collect or process the personal data of people in EU countries. In the US, there are national federal laws, state laws, plus a body of law applying to US territories (Puerto Rico, the US Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa). Federal laws tend to focus either on regulations like FISMA for federal departments or as "vertical" laws affecting a particular industry. Examples of the latter include the **Gramm–Leach–Bliley Act (GLBA)** for financial services, and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA).

Some states have started to introduce "horizontal" personal data regulations, similar to the approach taken by the GDPR. One high-profile example of state legislation is the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) ([csoonline.com/article/3292578/california-consumer-privacy-act-what-you-need-to-know-to-be-compliant.html](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/regulations-standards-and-legislation)).

> _Varonis' blog contains a useful overview of privacy laws in the US ([varonis.com/blog/us-privacy-laws](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/regulations-standards-and-legislation))._

**Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)**  
Compliance issues can also arise from industry-mandated regulations. For example, the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) defines the safe handling and storage of financial information ([pcisecuritystandards.org/pci\_security](https://course.adinusa.id/sections/regulations-standards-and-legislation)).