# ENTERPRISE MOBILITY MANAGEMENT

#### ENTERPRISE MOBILITY MANAGEMENT

Enterprise mobility management (EMM) is a class of management software designed to apply security policies to the use of mobile devices and apps in the enterprise. The challenge of identifying and managing attached devices is often referred to as visibility. EMM software can be used to manage enterprise-owned devices as well as BYOD. There are two main functions of an EMM product suite:

  
-   **Mobile device management (MDM)**—sets device policies for authentication, feature use (camera and microphone), and connectivity. MDM can also allow device resets and remote wipes.
  
-   **Mobile application management (MAM)**—sets policies for apps that can process corporate data, and prevents data transfer to personal apps. This type of solution configures an enterprise-managed container or workspace.
  

Additionally, distinguishing whether client endpoints are mobile or fixed is not really a critical factor for many of these management tasks, with the consequence that the latest suites aim for visibility across PC, laptop, smartphone, tablet, and even IoT devices. These suites are called unified **endpoint management (UEM)** (redmondmag.com/Articles/2017/10/01/Unified-Endpoint-Management.aspx).

The core functionality of endpoint management suites extends the concept of network access control (NAC) solutions. The management software logs the use of a device on the network and determines whether to allow it to connect or not, based on administrator-set parameters. When the device is enrolled with the management software, it can be configured with policies to allow or restrict use of apps, corporate data, and built-in functions, such as a video camera or microphone.

Some EMM/UEM solutions include AirWatch (air-watch.com), Microsoft Intune (microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/enterprise-mobility-security/microsoft-intune), Symantec/Broadcom (broadcom.com/products/cyber-security/endpoint/end-user/protection-mobile), and Citrix Endpoint Management (formerly XenMobile) (citrix.com/products/citrix-endpoint-management).