# VIDEO AND WITNESS INTERVIEWS

#### VIDEO AND WITNESS INTERVIEWS

The first phase of a forensics investigation is to document the scene. The crime scene must be recorded using photographs and ideally audio and video. Investigators must capture every action they take in identifying, collecting, and handling evidence.

> _Remember that if the matter comes to trial, the trial could take place months or years after the event. It is vital to record impressions and actions in notes. Also consider that in-place CCTV systems or webcams might have captured valuable evidence._

If possible, evidence is gathered from the live system using forensic software tools. It is vital that these tools do as little to modify the digital data that they capture as possible.

As well as digital evidence, an investigator should interview witnesses to establish what they were doing at the scene, whether they observed any suspicious behavior or activity, and also to gather information about the computer system. An investigator might ask questions informally and record the answers as notes to gain an initial understanding of the circumstances surrounding an incident. An investigator must ask questions carefully, to ensure that the witness is giving reliable information and to avoid leading the witness to a particular conclusion. Making an audio or video recording of witness statements produces a more reliable record but may make witnesses less willing to make a statement. If a witness needs to be compelled to make a statement, there will be legal issues around employment contracts (if the witness is an employee) and right to legal representation.