# DIGITAL FORENSICS SOFTWARE

#### DIGITAL FORENSICS SOFTWARE

Digital forensics software is designed to assist the acquisition, documentation, and analysis of digital evidence. Most of the commercial forensics tools are available for the Windows platform only.

-   EnCase Forensic is a digital forensics case management product created by Guidance Software (guidancesoftware.com/encase-forensic?cmpid=nav\_r). Case management is assisted by built-in pathways, or workflow templates, showing the key steps in diverse types investigation. In addition to the core forensics suite, there are separate products for e-discovery (digital evidence management) and Endpoint Investigator (for over the network analysis of corporate desktops and servers).

  

-   **The Forensic Toolkit (FTK)** from AccessData (accessdata.com/products-services/forensic-toolkit-ftk) is another commercial investigation suite designed to run on Windows Server (or server cluster).
  
-   **The Sleuth Kit** (sleuthkit.org) is an open-source collection of command line tools and programming libraries for disk imaging and file analysis. Autopsy is a graphical front-end for these tools and acts as a case management/workflow tool. The program can be extended with plug-ins for various analysis functions. Autopsy is available for Windows and can be compiled from the source code to run on Linux.
  
-   **WinHex** from X-Ways (x-ways.net/winhex) is a commercial tool for forensic recovery and analysis of binary data, with support for a range of file systems and memory dump types (depending on version).
  
-   The Volatility Framework (github.com/volatilityfoundation/volatility) is widely used for system memory analysis.