# PRESERVATION AND INTEGRITY OF EVIDENCE

#### PRESERVATION AND INTEGRITY OF EVIDENCE

It is vital that the evidence collected at the crime scene conform to a valid **timeline**. Digital information is susceptible to tampering, so access to the evidence must be tightly controlled. Recording the whole process establishes the **provenance** of the evidence as deriving directly from the crime scene.

To obtain a forensically sound image from nonvolatile storage, you need to ensure that nothing you do alters data or metadata (properties) on the source disk or file system. A **write blocker** assures this process by preventing any data on the disk or volume from being changed by filtering write commands at the driver and OS level. Data acquisition would normally proceed by attaching the target device to a forensics workstation or field capture device equipped with a write blocker.

**Data Acquisition with Integrity and Non-Repudiation**  
Once the target disk has been safely attached to the forensics workstation, data acquisition proceeds as follows:

1.  A cryptographic hash of the disk media is made, using either the MD5 or SHA hashing function. The output of the function can be described as a checksum.
  
3.  A bit-by-bit copy of the media is made using the imaging utility.
  
5.  A second hash is then made of the image, which should match the original hash of the media.
  
7.  A copy is made of the reference image, validated again by the checksum. Analysis is performed on the copy.
  

This proof of integrity ensures non-repudiation. If the provenance of the evidence is certain, the threat actor identified by analysis of the evidence cannot deny their actions. The checksums prove that no modification has been made to the image.

> _In practical terms, the image acquisition software will perform the verification steps as part of the acquisition process, but in theory you could use separate tools to perform each stage individually._

**Preservation of Evidence**  
The host devices and media taken from the crime scene should be labeled, bagged, and sealed, using tamper-evident bags. It is also appropriate to ensure that the bags have antistatic shielding to reduce the possibility that data will be damaged or corrupted on the electronic media by electrostatic discharge (ESD). Each piece of evidence should be documented by a chain of custody form which records where, when, and who collected the evidence, who subsequently handled it, and where it was stored.

The evidence should be stored in a secure facility; this not only means access control, but also environmental control, so that the electronic systems are not damaged by condensation, ESD, fire, and other hazards. Similarly, if the evidence is transported, the transport must also be secure.